AAH 120: History of World Architecture II
Comprehensive background as well as concentration on individual cultures and their architects from the Renaissance to modern times. Discussion of architectures from around the world. Specific details and expressions of more generalized theories and strategies will be explored.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Alaina Griffin ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Siegel Hall 118 (add to cart)

AAH 201: Art Appreciation: Thinking, Talking, and Writing about Art
This course is designed to introduce the skills needed to describe, analyze, and make arguments about art. We will begin by learning the skills of description and formal analysis and exploring different media: painting, sculpture, printmaking and architecture. In the middle portion of the class, we will build on the skills we have learned for formally analyzing artworks as we examine different methods used in the writing of the history of art and making arguments about art. We will pay particular attention to the historical and social contexts of art and the roles that race and identity have played in the interpretation of works of art. The final section of this class considers how art is exhibited in museums, galleries, and in public space. Throughout the class we will make use of Chicago area institutions and exhibitions.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Dabbert ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Hermann Hall 003 (add to cart)

AAH 323: 20th Century American Art and Culture
This broadly chronological survey begins with Sargent and Cassett in the context of European traditions. Impressionism comes to America through the art of Chase and Hassam, and other members of "The Ten". Early Modernism follows with Henri, Glackens and Sloan, leading artists of "The Eight" and the Ashcan painters, including Bellows. The major regionalists include Benton, Wood, and O'Keefe with Hopper emerging as the most significant artist of the century. With New York as the new center of Western art in post-war America, Pollock defines abstract Expressionism, followed by Warhol and Pop-Art.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Dabbert ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Hermann Hall 003 (add to cart)

AAH 380: Topics in Art and Architecture History
An investigation into a topic of current or enduring interest in Art and/or Architectural History which will be announced by the instructor when the course is scheduled.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Alaina Griffin ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Hermann Hall 007 (add to cart)

ARCH 108: Design Communication II: Advanced
This course introduces students to a wide range of digital and computational techniques, tools, and methodologies that are part of an architect’s essential skill set. A series of exercises will develop and advance the student’s knowledge of 3D modeling and representational methods while gaining a necessary understanding of how each tool can be utilized to analyze and communicate architectural ideas.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

ARCH 114: Architecture Studio II: Unit
As an extension of the themes of ARCH 113, students explore the synthesis of architectural elements in the design of an integrated architectonic unit comprised of architectural elements. Students are introduced to urban research and further develop their skills of analytical thinking, representation, and design communication.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 14 sections)

ARCH 202: Architecture Studio IV: Multiple
Continued development of architectural principles of ARCH 201 through research and design of multi-unit housing in the city. Students further their understanding of programming, urban design and the technical aspects of construction assemblies. The study of architectural scale, composition and urban relationships are explored. Development of design process and skills of design communication and critical thinking are furthered.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 8 sections)

ARCH 230: Systems: Structural Analysis
The course will provide the student with an understanding of basic structural behavior. It will teach students about forces, vectors, equilibrium, statics, free body diagrams, material properties, stress, strain and deformation. It will look at the concepts of loads takedown and tributary area. Part of that discussion will be the concept of diaphragms (flexible vs. rigid) as a way of distributing horizontal loads to the lateral resisting systems.
Spring 2025: 32 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Stephen Kibler ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Siegel Hall 118 (add to cart)

ARCH 306: Architecture Studio VI: Hybrid
Continued development of architectural principles of ARCH 305 through the design of an urban neighborhood project. Students are introduced to urban design and larger scale planning issues and conduct broad-based research into issues impacting larger mixed-use buildings in the city.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 10 sections)

ARCH 321: Contemporary Architecture
This course investigates the state of contemporary architecture as represented by significant practices, buildings, theories, and criticisms. Themes to be considered include globalization, the role of digital design media, the ethics and aesthetics of sustainability, contemporary urbanism, new approaches to materials and structure, and recent interests in ornament and pattern-making. Current conditions will be related historically to postwar reactions to modernism and contextually to the social and technological shifts of recent decades.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Alaina Griffin ~ R from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Perlstein Hall 131 (add to cart)

ARCH 335: Material: Cementitious
A comprehensive investigation of concrete building design viewed through material properties, structural members, and structural systems. The focus of the class is the understanding and reduction of complex concrete building concepts into understandable components of the detail, the element and the system. Topics include flexural members, compression members, geotechnical engineering, foundation systems, lateral and gravity systems, connections, and detailed technical drawings. Current and historical precedents will be presented in case studies and building tours.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Stephen Kibler ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Siegel Hall 118 (add to cart)

ARCH 404: Environment and Building Systems II
Selection and design of building support systems: heating, ventilating, air conditioning, water supply, sanitary and storm drainage, power distribution, lighting, communications, and vertical transportation. Systems are analyzed for their effect on building form, construction cost and operating efficiency.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Newman ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Siegel Hall 118 (add to cart)

ARCH 413: Architectural Practice
Lectures and practical problems dealing with specifications, specification writing, administration of construction, contracts, building law and professional practice.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Andrew Tinucci, Brian Foote ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in IIT Tower 1F6-1 (add to cart)

ARCH 418: Architecture Studio VIII: Synthesis
This course continues and furthers the student's understanding of the technical aspects of building design through a Comprehensive Building Design project focusing on an institutional building in the city with a complex program. Building on previous design studios, students continue their investigation into urban, programmatic and cultural research, and further their knowledge of building systems and concepts of building performance, sustainability and building envelope design. The integration of mechanical, electrical, plumbing systems, structural systems, constructional assemblies, and technology systems is addressed in lectures and studio work, and students further their understanding of advanced tools related to building performance and evaluation software.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 8 sections)

ARCH 420: Architecture Studio X: Advanced
Advanced Studios engage both IIT architecture faculty and a select group of visiting studio professors noted for their outstanding professional experience in contemporary practice. The focus of each studio is strong design experimentation that is implemented in highly resolved, complex architectural design projects. Studios work on sites within Chicago, explore urban areas around the globe, and/or focus on hypothetical or technological challenges that shape the built environment. Students design structural and material systems that recognize issues of ecology as well as the broader, integrated concerns of climate, energy and natural resource use, and sustainability. Uniting the diverse strands of urban place making, economic diversity, social equity and environmental stewardship, Advanced Studios promote the design of places that reflect the values of their inhabitants, and create a lasting sense of community with meaningful identity. The studios are formed in thematic clusters that complement each other or serve as dialectical opposites. Each studio explores a variety of techniques from parametric design, digital fabrication, model making, and advanced geospatial software to cultural and theoretical explorations. Students will be able to select from a variety of studio topics. The vertical studio integrates advanced BArch, MArch, MS, and PHD students. Open only to Architecture majors.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 12 sections)

ARCH 436: Advanced Modeling
This course will focus on 3D modeling of complex geometric components in architecture and design. Concepts explored will concentrate on the advancement of digital design as an iterative process. Various modeling types covered are (1) Explicit Modeling, (2) Nurbs Surface Modeling, (3) Parametric Modeling, and (4) Generative Components and Response Modeling. Output will utilize digital fabrication methods as support of the iterative design process.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Alphonso Peluso ~ T from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Tech Park - North Building 110 (add to cart)

ARCH 437: BIM Revit
This course is designed to teach students the fundamentals of Autodesk's Revit software. The course includes an in-depth tour of the user interface and basic creation, editing, and viewing tools. In addition, the course will provide instruction on a variety of design development tools including walls, floors, roofs, windows, curtain-wall systems, stairs and more. Finally, instruction will be providing on the use of Autodesk's cloud-based services for the creation of computer-generated renderings and panoramic images.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Manfredy ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Crown Hall 001 (add to cart)

ARCH 438: Design Visualization
This course is an in-depth exploration of new visualization techniques to support and express architectural design through 3D rendering. Topics covered will include 3D modeling, cameras, lighting, material mapping, and rendering output. Presentation concepts covered include storytelling, rendering style, visual mood, and image composition.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Ying-Chun Hsu ~ W from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Crown Hall 001 (add to cart)

ARCH 446: History of Landscape Architecture
Survey of the history of landscape design throughout the world, including contemporary projects. The course emphasizes both analytical and holistic approaches to the study of historic designs, highlights the relationship between architecture and landscape, and stresses major concepts that directly influence present day designs. One field trip.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kristopher Lucius ~ M from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Crown Hall 003 (add to cart)

ARCH 449: Alternative Chairs
This course will be about the design of chairs, or more broadly body support devices, and the focus will be on ergonomics, structure, materials, and manufacturing issues. If a house can be considered a “machine for living”, this will be about machines for the support of the body. The course will conclude with each student building a prototype chair of his or her own design.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Kriegshauser ~ F from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Minerals and Metals Building MEZZANINE (add to cart)

ARCH 475: Spatial Stories
This course will examine the spatial story as it appears in diverse media: short fiction, films, everyday discourse, architecture, etc. The coursework will consist of reading and writing assignments as well as the viewing of films and other visual artifacts. The course has two goals: to offer students the opportunity to improve their study and communication skills and to examine the social, cultural, and historical aspects of spatial practices such as architecture.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jonathan Miller ~ T from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Crown Hall 014 (add to cart)

ARCH 480: Materials and Construction
This course provides an overview of basic building materials and assemblies, how they are constructed, and the relationships between them. The objective is to introduce students to the range of material choices available to the designer, new materials and assemblies, and fundamental principles to guide design decisions. The course is organized according to the MasterFormat outline developed by the Construction Specifications Institute. Students will learn standards for writing specifications using a system of numbered categories to organize construction activities, products, and requirements into a standard order. Topics include pre-design issues, sites and foundations, concrete, masonry, metals, wood, plastics, thermal and moisture protection, glass, roofing systems, and conveying equipment.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Eva Kultermann ~ R from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Crown Hall 014 (add to cart)

ARCH 483: Material: Transparent
An exploration of historical and current technology through the work of artists, architects, craftsmen, and engineers in a brittle medium. Topics include wall systems, connections, structural design of all glass structures, and material properties. Sealants, coatings, adhesives, and impact and blast resistant interlayers will also be covered. A lab component will encourage experimentation of columns, beams, and surfaces from glass components.
Spring 2025: 23 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Paul Endres ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Crown Hall 014 (add to cart)

ARCH 485: Structures I: Structural Analysis -- The System
Basic understanding of the system involves forces, vectors, equilibrium, statics, supports with free body diagrams, material properties, stress, strain, and deformation (force or temperature). Simple structural systems will be analyzed using simple statics and free body diagrams. The latter part of the course will concentrate on structural typologies. Load paths will be analyzed for several different types, construction materials, and structural systems. Principles of deflection will be presented along with vertical and lateral displacement issues.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Stephen Kibler ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Siegel Hall 118 (add to cart)

ARCH 489: Structural Systems for Tall Buildings
The course starts by giving an overview of the state of the art of tall buildings and, in particular, super tall buildings. The developments of structural systems to resist lateral and gravity loads through the years will be explained. Many examples of tall buildings will be given showing the application of such systems. The students will be introduced to structural load design criteria, and they will be taught how to schematically design a tall building. Guest lectures from the practice will participate in the teaching. The course will also make the connection between architecture, structure, and construction. The course will draw from the city of Chicago experience. Prerequisite: Basic knowledge of structures.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mahjoub Elnimeiri ~ T from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Crown Hall 014 (add to cart)

ARCH 490: Topics in Advanced Digital Design
Digital technologies have altered the field of architecture significantly in recent years, resulting in an increased demand for specialists in the profession. Building on the knowledge and skills gained in the introductory design communications courses, these advanced electives focus on topics in digital technology and computational design. Students select from varied topics including design visualization, advanced modelling, building information systems (BIM/Revit), building performance simulation and digital fabrication among others
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Alphonso Peluso ~ R from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Tech Park - North Building 110 (add to cart)

ARCH 491: Topics in Architecture History & Theory
Intended to build on the knowledge and abilities gained in the foundational architectural history and theory courses, these seminar courses focus on topics in history, theory, and criticism. Students select from varying and diverse topics such as urbanism, sustainability, design methodology, aesthetics, ethics and law, history of technology, and architecture in relation to other arts. Critical reading and writing skills are emphasized
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Donna Robertson ~ W from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Crown Hall UC2 (add to cart)

ARCH 492: Topics in Design/Build
These courses offer knowledge and skills related to design-build in a variety of areas. Students may select between varying and diverse topics offered by the faculty including advanced construction and material technologies, building envelope systems, advanced structural design, energy and sustainability, architectural acoustics and lighting, fabrication, and computer-aided design technologies
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Brian Cassidy ~ W from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Minerals and Metals Building MEZZANINE (add to cart)

ARCH 493: Topics in Visual Studies
As architectural communication continues to include more territory and components of a project, it is important for designers to be knowledgeable about the various ways in which to communicate visually. Elective courses in the visual studies topics focus on visual representation techniques and processes, and visual perception and aesthetic judgment applied to architecture. Students select from varying and diverse topics such as visual training, collage making, freehand drawing and digital photography among others.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Ryan Roark ~ M from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Crown Hall 005 (add to cart)

ARCH 494: Topics in Advanced Technology
This research seminar examines advances in the technologies that affect the practice of architecture. The course examines leading technologies, processes, and applications, and their role in building design and production. The course will navigate the broad and varied materials related to advanced technologies in architecture by focusing on specific applications for specific projects. Students may select between varying and diverse topics offered by the faculty that may include building envelopes, architectural materials, building and environmental systems, advanced structural design, energy and sustainability, architectural acoustics and lighting, fabrication, and computer-aided design technologies.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Thomas Brock ~ R from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Crown Hall UC2 (add to cart)

ARCH 497: Topics in Architecture
Investigations into topics of current interest in Architecture, Landscape Architecture or Urbanism that do not fall under the other Topics courses. The specific topics will be announced by the instructors when the courses are scheduled. Students may also propose Independent Study of projects and problems. Students proposing the Independent Study option must have an Independent Study advisor and have approval of the Department.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 6 sections)

ARCH 501: Contemporary Architecture
This course investigates the state of contemporary architecture as represented by significant practices, buildings, theories, and criticisms. Themes to be considered include globalization, the role of digital design media, the ethics and aesthetics of sustainability, contemporary urbanism, new approaches to materials and structure, and recent interests in ornament and pattern-making. Current conditions will be related historically to postwar reactions to modernism and contextually to the social and technological shifts of recent decades. With a focus on primary readings and building documentation, the course places an emphasis on the great complexity of social, political, intellectual, and technological forces affecting design. Critical reading and writing skills will be emphasized.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Alaina Griffin ~ R from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Perlstein Hall 131 (add to cart)

ARCH 503: Advanced Topics in History and Theory II
Intended to build on the knowledge and abilities gained in the foundational architectural history and theory courses. This seminar focuses on advanced topics in history, theory, and criticism. Students select from varying and diverse topics such as urbanism, sustainability, design methodology, aesthetics, ethics and law, history of technology, and architecture in relation to other arts. Seminar may also offer intense focus on particular architects, periods, regions, or movements. Critical reading and writing skills will be emphasized. In addition, the advanced seminar will teach research skills, will expect the students to formulate and pursue original research topics, and will expect oral presentations of these projects. These abilities will be evaluated through in-class presentations and research papers.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michelangelo Sabatino ~ T from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Tech Park - North Building 101 (add to cart)

ARCH 507: Design Communications II: Systems and Assemblages
The full design communication process, from contextual and programmatic analysis to the digital fabrication of a system of parts, will be introduced through a series of related studies. Computationally associative design methodologies will be utilized and continue the computer science introduction.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Jordan Hicks ~ T from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Crown Hall UC2 (add to cart)

ARCH 509: Topics in Advanced Technology
This research seminar examines advances in the technologies that affect the practice of architecture. The course examines leading technologies, processes, and applications, and their role in building design and production. The course will navigate the broad and varied materials related to advanced technologies in architecture by focusing on specific applications for specific projects. Students may select between varying and diverse topics offered by the faculty that may include building envelopes, architectural materials, building and environmental systems, advanced structural design, energy and sustainability, architectural acoustics and lighting, fabrication, and computer-aided design technologies.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Thomas Brock ~ R from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Crown Hall UC2 (add to cart)

ARCH 514: Environment and Building Systems II
Selection and design of building support systems: heating, ventilating, air conditioning, water supply, sanitary and storm drainage, power distribution, lighting, communications, and vertical transportation. Systems are analyzed for their effect on building form, construction cost, and operating efficiency.
Spring 2025: 26 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Youngjin Hwang ~ R from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

ARCH 542: Architecture Studio II: Architecture in the City
The second semester of the Master of Architecture focuses on the development of the fundamental aspects of form, space, structure, and materiality explored through the design of a small neighborhood library, which is an essential building-block of the city. The design-based investigation focuses on the study of spatial organization, public space, user experiences and basic tectonic principles, as well as examining the arrangement of and relations between the parts and elements of the urban environment. Through a series of assignments, students are guided step by step through the design process. The first part of the semester focuses on understanding the project’s context through the careful investigation of current issues, historical and contemporary precedents, and an in-depth analysis and documentation of a particular site within a specific neighborhood in Chicago. This process is followed by forecasting, conceptual framing, and schematic explorations, and culminates with the strategic development and conceptual detailing of a building and its environs. Design projects are developed individually with the support of team research. A strong emphasis is placed on craft, making, the communication of ideas, and documentation of process. The semester culminates by assembling student portfolios of design work.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Studio (Class) ~ Leslie Johnson ~ MWF from 1:50 PM to 5:50 PM in Crown Hall USE (add to cart)

ARCH 544: Architecture Studio IV: Working in the City
The design studio focuses on the design of urban industrial architecture. Industrial buildings house large number of workers operating complex, high-tech machinery and equipment. Industrial buildings have gradually become a vital part of the architecture of the 21th century. Thanks to the constant advancement of non-polluting micro-technologies, industrial buildings are emerging in the center of service-oriented cities around the globe. The first part of the semester focuses on understanding the typology of industrial buildings through the careful investigation of current workplace issues, historical and contemporary precedents, and an in-depth analysis and documentation of a particular site within a specific neighborhood in the city of Chicago. The second part of the studio focuses on aesthetic qualities of industrial architecture, and design issues related to: building facades and layered skins; proportioning and division of large volumes of enclosed space; harmony of structural and internal spatial elements; orderly placement of people, machinery and equipment; and, systematic arrangement of logistical operations to and from the project site. Emphasis is placed on the environmental sustainability of the building design approach and execution. Special attention is given to material/spatial efficiency, mechanical system selection and envelope design. Students are encouraged to evaluate and provide proof-of-concept data for decisions pertaining to energy use and efficiency, recycling and the reuse of natural resources.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

ARCH 546: Architecture Studio VI: Advanced
The aim of the design studio is to develop formal solutions which address the complexities of modern metropolis and advance disciplinary knowledge at large. The Advanced Studio program provides the intellectual climate as well as material infrastructure to explore the larger forces that influence the growth of cities. In the contemporary world, developing alternative models of design are necessary to make a transformative impact on the built environment. Design work in Advanced Studios at IIT directly engages real-life challenges and design-based solutions. As they seek to synthesize and impart principles and knowledge, to advance aesthetic and analytical skills, and to creatively expand upon given cultural norms, the Advanced Studios offer students the means to leverage their intuitions and insights to find better ways to enhance the built environment. The studios are formed in thematic clusters that complement each other or serve as dialectical opposites. Each studio explores a variety of techniques from parametric design, digital fabrication, model making, and advanced geospatial software to cultural and theoretical explorations. The vertical studio integrates advanced BArch, MArch, MS, and PHD students. Open only to Architecture majors.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 11 sections)

ARCH 568: Architectural Practice
Lectures and practical problems dealing with specifications, specification writing, administration of construction, contracts, building law, and professional practice.
Spring 2025: 58 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Andrew Tinucci, Brian Foote ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in IIT Tower 1F6-1 (add to cart)

ARCH 571: Talking TALL II
Talking TALL II will fully examine the physical, environmental, and social sustainability implications of tall buildings at human, architectural, and urban scales in order to offer students extensive and in-depth knowledge and resources to investigate tall buildings and future cities. The aspects of TALL buildings covered in this course include their design principles, technologies, appropriateness to context, energy consumption, life-cycle considerations, natural ventilation, vertical greenery, facades, new typologies, and more. The aspects of TALL cities covered include an analysis of vertical urbanism vs. suburban sprawl, transportation and infrastructure implications, quality of life for residents in tall urban environments, etc., -- all ultimately with a view to a discourse on what should constitute a holistic vision of "sustainable vertical urbanism." While Talking TALL I focuses mostly at the urban scale, Talking TALL II focuses more on the detailed building/technological scale.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Yohan Kim, Antony Wood ~ M from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 106 (add to cart)

ARCH 573: Tall Building Technologies II
This course aims to provide students with an understanding of the technologies that enable tall buildings and dense future cities, especially cutting-edge current and emerging technologies. The course continues the investigation initiated in ARCH 572: Tall Building Technologies I. The technologies examined will embrace both the building and urban (infrastructure) scales. Sub-topics include; Building Automation Control Systems; Building Maintenance; Construction; Energy Conservation and Generation, Environmental Engineering; Environmental Protection; Façade Engineering & Systems; Fire & Life Safety Engineering; Geo-technical / Foundations; MEP Engineering; Project Management; Property Management; Security; Seismic Engineering; Structural Engineering; Transportation; Urban Infrastructure; Vertical Transportation; Wind Engineering.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yohan Kim ~ R from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in IIT Tower 6C7-1 (add to cart)

ARCH 590: Specialized Research
The Master of Science program seeks to be synthetic and inter-disciplinary in its approach. Specialized research is designed to demonstrate an intellectual objective for an in-depth study that will contribute to the practice of architecture. The seminar is focused on the general development of the research problem, its structure, and objectives. Specialized research leads toward the final acceptance of the Masters Project that may take the form of a written document of publishable quality, or an exhibition and accompanying catalog. (Credit: Variable)
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Jonathan Miller ~ T from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Crown Hall UC1 (add to cart)

ARCH 591: Research and Thesis M.S.
Marking the transition between the academic and professional worlds, the thesis work is an opportunity for each student to define an individual position with regard to a specific aspect of architectural practice. It is intended that the thesis project investigates architectural and urban designs as formal and theoretical elaborations of the design-based research as well as the collective outcome of socio-political forces analyzed during thesis research.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Jonathan Miller (add to cart)

ARCH 595: Research in Progress Forum
Research in Progress Forum presents students with opportunities (lectures and reading discussions) to engage with other researchers in the fields of architectural history/theory and technologies of the built environment. Students will be required to produce weekly writing assignments based on publications provided ahead of time by guest speakers. Must be taken four times by PhD students to fulfill course credit requirements.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Michelangelo Sabatino ~ R from 12:45 PM to 1:45 PM in Tech Park - North Building 112 (add to cart)

ARCH 597: Special Problems

Spring 2025: Class (show all 6 sections)

ARCH 602: Crafting a Dissertation
This course provides a context in which doctoral students can formulate their dissertation proposals. Through reading and discussion of model research projects and methodological studies, students will examine the challenges and potentials of locating a dissertation topic, shaping a hypothesis, selecting methods and interpretive frameworks, conducting research, and articulating a compelling argument. The course addresses both pragmatic and intellectual aspects of research. A primary goal is the writing of a draft dissertation proposal as the basis for the Ph.D. comprehensive exam. The course will follow a seminar format requiring significant reading, writing, and class participation.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Michelangelo Sabatino ~ R from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Tech Park - North Building 112 (add to cart)

ARCH 691: Doctoral Research

Spring 2025: Class (show all 11 sections)

AS 102: Heritage and Values of the United States Air Force II
This survey course is designed to introduce students to the United States Air Force and provides an overview of the basic characteristics, missions, and organization of the Air Force. This is the second course of a two-course sequence that begins with AS 101 Heritage and Values of the United States Air Force I.
Spring 2025: 33 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Hannah Kosirog, Kyle Hees, Anna Olsen, Matthew Weaver (add to cart)

AS 202: Team and Leadership Fundamentals II
This course focuses on laying the foundation for teams and leadership. The topics include skills that will allow cadets to improve their leadership on a personal level and within a team. The courses will prepare cadets for their field training experience where they will be able to put the concepts learned into practice. The purpose is to instill a leadership mindset and to motivate sophomore students to transition from AFROTC cadet to AFROTC officer candidate. This is the second course of a two-course sequence that begins with AS 201 Team and Leadership Fundamentals I.
Spring 2025: 24 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Matthew Weaver, Kyle Hees, Hannah Kosirog, Anna Olsen (add to cart)

AS 302: Leading People and Effective Communication II
This course teaches cadets advanced skills and knowledge in management and leadership. Special emphasis is placed on enhancing leadership skills and communication. Cadets have an opportunity to try out these leadership and management techniques in a supervised environment as juniors and seniors. This is the second course of a two-course sequence that begins with AS 301 Leading People and Effective Communication I.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Anna Olsen, Kyle Hees, Hannah Kosirog, Matthew Weaver (add to cart)

AS 402: National Security Affairs/Preparation for Active Duty II
This course is designed for college seniors and gives them the foundation to understand their role as military officers in American society. It is an overview of the complex social and political issues facing the military profession and requires a measure of sophistication commensurate with the senior college level. This is the second course of a two-course sequence that begins with AS 401 National Security Affairs/Preparation for Active Duty I.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Matthew Weaver, Kyle Hees, Hannah Kosirog, Anna Olsen (add to cart)

AS 499: AFROTC LLAB Leadership Laboratory
Leadership Laboratory (LLAB) is a dynamic and integrated grouping of leadership developmental activities designed to meet the needs and expectations of prospective Air Force second lieutenants and complement the AFROTC academic program. Most of the LLAB lesson objectives are cadet planned, organized, and executed under the supervision of the Detachment Commander and Operations Flight Commander. LLAB is required every Fall and Spring semester for Air Force cadets.
Spring 2025: 85 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Hannah Kosirog, Kyle Hees, Anna Olsen, Matthew Weaver (add to cart)

BIOL 114: Introduction to Human Biology
This course, designed for non-majors in biology, covers selected topics in biology of particular relevance to humans and to human health and disease. Topics include: Introductory biochemistry and cell structure, organization, and regulation of body systems; human genetics; human development; biotechnology; introduction to human pathogens and infectious diseases including sexually-transmitted diseases and immunologic diseases such as AIDS; human ecology; and human evolution. This course is not available to those students for whom BIOL 115 is a required course, including students majoring in Biology, Biochemistry, Molecular Biochemistry and Biophysics, Chemical Engineering, or Biomedical Engineering, and students in any pre-health profession major or minor. BIOL 107 and BIOL 114 constitutes a one-year sequence in biology. Acceptable as part of science component of the General Education Program.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Thomas Irving ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 129 (add to cart)

BIOL 115: Human Biology
This course covers selected topics in biology of particular relevance to humans and to human health and disease. Topics include biology of human cells and selected organ systems; neurobiology including psychoactive drugs and drug addiction; development and birth defects; genetics and genetic diseases; toxicology; the immune system and immunologic diseases such as AIDS; human nutrition and nutritional effects; microbial human diseases. BIOL 107 plus BIOL 115 constitutes a one-year sequence in biology. Acceptable as part of science component of the General Education Program.
Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Tanya Bekyarova ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

BIOL 117: Human Biology Laboratory
A biology laboratory course to accompany BIOL 114 or BIOL 115. A cellular approach to the functional organization of organs and organ systems. Laboratories will include the application of experimental methods and techniques for understanding the relationship between cell structure and function.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Yuting Lin ~ T from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 306 (add to cart)

BIOL 210: Microbiology
This course covers basics of microbiology including structure, genetics, growth, and metabolic diversity of microorganisms. Topics relating to the importance of microorganisms in health, ecosystems, industry, and water and food safety are also covered.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kathryn Spink ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 213 (add to cart)

BIOL 225: Microbiology Laboratory
Exercises focus on sterile technique, growth requirements of microorganisms, identification of microorganisms using biochemical activities, food, and water microbiology.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Kathryn Spink ~ T from 8:35 AM to 11:15 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 306 ~ R from 8:35 AM to 11:15 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 306 (add to cart)

BIOL 327: Introduction to Immunology
Covers general principles of innate and adaptive immunity including structure and function of immune system components, T and B cell development, responses of the immune system to infection, and consequences of immune system failure.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kathryn Spink ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 213 (add to cart)

BIOL 402: Metabolic Biochemistry
The second part of a one-year Biochemistry series. This semester deals with biochemistry of metabolism, focusing on: glycolysis, the citric acid cycle, gluconeogenesis, electron transport, and the synthesis and breakdown of biomolecules (amino acids, nucleic acids, lipids, and carbohydrates), blood chemistry, lipid transportation, and metabolic control.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicholas Menhart ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 121 (add to cart)

BIOL 403: Biochemistry
Molecular organization of cell structures and cell membranes. Proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids, their molecular structure, characterization and chemical reactions. Enzymes and enzyme-catalyzed reactions and metabolism. Does not satisfy biochemistry requirement for Biology, Biochemistry, or Molecular Biochemistry and Biophysics majors.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Andrew Howard ~ TR from 8:10 AM to 9:50 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

BIOL 404: Biochemistry Laboratory
Analytical methods in the chemistry and metabolism of proteins, amino acids, and nucleic acids, including chromatography, spectrophotometry, and electrophoresis. Enzyme reactions.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Rajendra Goswami ~ TR from 5 PM to 7:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 306 (add to cart)

BIOL 420: Population Genetics
The study of genetic variation in natural populations is the foundation for modern evolutionary biology. Population genetics covers both the theoretical study of the effects of various forces on genetic diversity and the empirical analysis of genetic variation observed in real populations. Throughout the course, students’ understanding of population genetics theory will be reinforced with examples of applications. Topics will include genetic drift, genealogical approaches and coalescence, structured populations and migration mutation and natural selection.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicholas Miller (add to cart)

BIOL 430: Human Physiology
This course is designed to provide the students with comprehensive knowledge about how the human body functions. It will cover cell physiology, autonomic nervous system, neurophysiology, acid base physiology, cardiovascular physiology, respiratory physiology, renal physiology, gastrointestinal physiology, endocrine physiology, and reproductive physiology. Credits cannot be earned to both BIOL 430 and BIOL 530.
Spring 2025: 19 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yuting Lin ~ W from 5 PM to 7:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

BIOL 431: Animal Physiology Laboratory
This course provides an introduction to some of the basic concepts of physiology through experimental procedures involving laboratory animals and humans. Experiments include EKG, producing and measuring nerve action potential, muscle contraction generation and its mechanism, human blood pressure measurement, human lung capacity measurement, and some other human noninvasive experiments.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Yuting Lin ~ W from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 311 ~ W from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 311 (add to cart)

BIOL 440: Neurobiology
This course will focus on identification of the anatomical and functional organization of the nervous system and the understanding of the principles of inter-neuronal communication and the integrative functions of the nervous system. Failures in brain functions that can lead to a disease will also be discussed.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Karina Tuz ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 238 (add to cart)

BIOL 451: Biological Literature
Library research on advanced topics in biology followed by oral presentations of this research.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicholas Miller ~ F from 3:15 PM to 4:55 PM in TBA (add to cart)

BIOL 470: Systems and Behavioral Neuroscience
In this course we will learn about the networks of neurons that form sensory systems (how we perceive our environment), learning/memory/cognition, and decision making + behavior. We will cover a wide range of organisms, from worms (C. elegans) to humans. The course will be structured into two core parts: 1) concept introduction & discussion 2) project and activity based learning.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Matthew Smith ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 213 (add to cart)

BIOL 490: Individual Study
Individual study. Consent of instructor required.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Kathryn Spink (add to cart)

BIOL 491: Biology Research Project
An opportunity for advanced undergraduates to participate in research. A written report covering the procedures, data, and conclusion of the problem is required. **Instructor permission required.**
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Karina Tuz (add to cart)

BIOL 495: Biology Colloquium
Lectures by prominent scientists. This course exposes students to current and active research in biology both within and outside the IIT community. It helps prepare students for a career in research. It is complementary to our academic courses and provides examples of professional/scientific presentations. This course may not be used to satisfy the natural science general education requirement.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Andrew Howard ~ M from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 121 (add to cart)

BIOL 504: Biochemistry
Molecules of biological significance; reaction thermodynamics and kinetics; metabolism; cellular localization of biochemical function; proteins; nucleic acids; transcription; translation.
Spring 2025: 22 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Oscar Juarez ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 152 (add to cart)

BIOL 520: Laboratory Rotation
Independent study in the research laboratory of a faculty member.
Spring 2025: Independent Study/Research (show all 6 sections)

BIOL 521: Population Genetics
The study of genetic variation in natural populations is the foundation for modern evolutionary biology. Population genetics covers both the theoretical study of the effects of various forces on genetic diversity and the empirical analysis of genetic variation observed in real populations. Throughout the course, students' understanding of population genetics theory will be reinforced with examples of applications. Topics will include genetic drift, genealogical approaches and coalescence, structured populations and migration mutation and natural selection.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicholas Miller (add to cart)

BIOL 530: Human Physiology
This course is designed to provide the students with comprehensive knowledge about how the human body functions. It will cover cell physiology, autonomic nervous system, neurophysiology, acid base physiology, cardiovascular physiology, respiratory physiology, renal physiology, gastrointestinal physiology, endocrine physiology, and reproductive physiology. Credits cannot be earned to both BIOL 430 and BIOL 530.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yuting Lin ~ W from 5 PM to 7:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

BIOL 533: Advanced Graduate Laboratory Techniques
This course covers a number of essential techniques in cell and molecular biology, biochemistry, and structural biology with emphases on both the methodologies and the experimental details. Laboratory procedures include cell culture skills and relevant laboratory procedures. This course is arranged modules from which students choose according to their areas of specialization.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Jialing Xiang, Tanya Bekyarova ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 306 (add to cart)

BIOL 540: Human neurological diseases
This 3-credit graduate course will focus on the neurological mechanisms related to nervous system diseases in human. In the first half of the semester, the students will learn nerve cell structures, cell-cell communication, neural signaling transmission, and to some extent, higher-order cognitive brain functions. In the second half of the semester, the students will discuss the scientific basis underlying the symptoms of common neurological diseases, and present papers from clinical researches for up-to-date treatment for human neurological diseases.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Lei Li ~ F from 10 AM to 12:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

BIOL 591: Research and Thesis M.S.
Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Karina Tuz (add to cart)

BIOL 594: Research Problems
Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Jean Pombert (add to cart)

BIOL 595: Biology Colloquium
Lectures by invited scientists in areas of biology generally not covered in the department.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Andrew Howard ~ M from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 121 (add to cart)

BIOL 597: Special Problems
Special problems in biology. Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

BIOL 691: Research and Thesis PHD
Research and Thesis for Ph. D. students.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Karina Tuz (add to cart)

BME 301: Bio-Fluid Mechanics
Basic properties of fluids in motion. Lagrangian and Eulerian viewpoints, material derivative, streamlines. Continuity, energy, angular and linear momentum equations in integral and differential forms. Applications in biofluids and biomedical devices; rheology of biological fluids.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Abhinav Bhushan ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

BME 310: Biomaterials
Applications of biomaterials in different tissue and organ systems. Relationship between physical and chemical structure of materials and biological system response. Choosing, fabricating, and modifying materials for specific biomedical applications.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Marcella Vaicik ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 106 (add to cart)

BME 315: Instrumentation and Measurement Laboratory
Laboratory exercises stress instrumentation usage and data analysis used to determine physiological functions and variables and the relations to the physiological variability.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Settimio Pacelli ~ F from 8:35 AM to 11:15 AM in Wishnick Hall 319 (add to cart)

BME 320: Fluids Laboratory
Laboratory experiments in thermodynamics, biological fluid flow, and heat transfer. Emphasis is placed on current methods, instrumentation, and equipment used in biomedical engineering; oral presentation of results; and on the writing of comprehensive reports. Open only to Biomedical Engineering majors.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Promila Dhar, Pravalika Sheelam ~ W from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Wishnick Hall 318 (add to cart)

BME 325: Bioelectronics Laboratory
Practical hands on design, construction and testing of electric and electronic circuitry for biomedical applications. Basic concepts will be presented with emphasis on their relevance to the design of systems that can be used for clinical and basic scientific research.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Settimio Pacelli ~ T from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 313 (add to cart)

BME 335: Thermodynamics of Living Systems
Principles of thermodynamics and conservation of mass applied to living systems and biomedical devices. The first and second laws of thermodynamics, pHs and chemical equilibrium, metabolic stoichiometry and energetics.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Promila Dhar ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 212 (add to cart)

BME 417: Technologies for Treatment of Diabetes
Study of physiological control systems and engineering of external control of biological systems by focusing on an endocrine system disorder -- diabetes. The effects of type 1 diabetes on glucose homeostasis and various treatment technologies for regulation of glucose concentration. Development of mathematical models describing the dynamics of glucose and insulin concentration variations, blood glucose concentration measurement and inference techniques, insulin pumps, and artificial pancreas systems.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ali Cinar ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

BME 420: Design Concepts in Biomedical Engineering
An introduction to the strategies and fundamental bioengineering design criteria behind the development of biomedical engineering systems and implantable devices that use either synthetic materials or hybrid (biological-synthetic)systems. Analysis and design of replacements for the heart, kidneys, and lungs. Specification and realization of structures for artificial organ systems. Students will be required to complete a team-oriented design project in their chosen track.
Spring 2025: 31 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Natacha DePaola ~ W from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 311 (add to cart)

BME 424: Quantitative Aspects of Cell and Tissue Engineering
This course is designed to cover fundamentals of cell and tissue engineering from a quantitative perspective. Topics addressed include elements of tissue development, cell growth and differentiation, cell adhesion, migration, molecular and cellular transport in tissues and polymeric hydrogels for tissue engineering and drug delivery applications.
Spring 2025: 23 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Georgia Papavasiliou ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

BME 438: Neuroimaging
This course describes the use of different imaging modalities to study brain function and connectivity. The first part of the course deals with brain function. It includes an introduction to energy metabolism in the brain, cerebral blood flow, and brain activation. It continues with an introduction to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), perfusion-based fMRI, BOLD fMRI, fMRI paradigm design and statistical analysis, introduction to positron emission tomography (PET) and studying brain function with PET, introduction to magneto encephalography and studying brain function with (MEG). The second part of the course deals with brain connectivity. It includes an introduction to diffusion tensor MRI, explanation to the relationship between the diffusion properties of tissue and its structural characteristics, white matter fiber tractography.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Konstantinos Arfanakis ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in IIT Tower 6D6-1 (add to cart)

BME 443: Biomedical Instrumentation and Electronics
Principles of circuit analysis are applied to typical transducer and signal recording situations found in biomedical engineering.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Philip Troyk ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 122 (add to cart)

BME 445: Quantitative Neural Function
Computational approach to basic neural modeling and function, including cable theory, ion channels, presynaptic potentials, stimulation thresholds, and nerve blocking techniques. Synaptic function is examined at the fundamental level.
Spring 2025: 21 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Keigo Kawaji ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 239 (add to cart)

BME 490: Senior Seminar
Professional issues in bioengineering. Role of bioengineers in industry. Professional identity. Structure of bioengineering industries and product development process. Job market analysis. Current employment opportunities. Recruiting process and interview. Analysis of employer. Marketing versus engineering. Management by objective. Role of higher degrees.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Boris Gutman ~ M from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

BME 492: Undergraduate Research
Independent research (experimental or theoretical/computational) under the supervision of a BME faculty member. A final written report is required to receive credit. **Instructor permission required.**
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Marcella Vaicik (add to cart)

BME 513: Methods of Computational Neuroscience: Single Neurons
Topics include, but are not limited to, Hodgkin-Huxley equations, cable theory, single neuron models, information theory, signal detection theory, reverse correlation, relating neural responses to behavior, and rate versus temporal codes. Instructor permission is required.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Keigo Kawaji ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 239 (add to cart)

BME 517: Technologies for Treatment of Diabetes
Study of physiological control systems and engineering of external control of biological systems by focusing on an endocrine system disorder -- diabetes. The effects of type 1 diabetes on glucose homeostasis and various treatment technologies for regulation of glucose concentration. Development of mathematical models describing the dynamics of glucose and insulin concentration variations, blood glucose concentration measurement and inference techniques, insulin pumps, and artificial pancreas systems.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ali Cinar ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

BME 524: Quantitative Aspects of Cell andTissue Engineering
This course is designed to cover fundamentals of cell and tissue engineering from a quantitative perspective. Topics addressed include elements of tissue development, cell growth and differentiation, cell adhesion, migration, molecular and cellular transport in tissues and polymeric hydrogels for tissue engineering and drug delivery applications.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Georgia Papavasiliou ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

BME 526: Advanced Biomedical Engineering Design
This course aims to educate students on project definition, and on the design, development, and technology transfer of potential biomedical products in the context of the student's major capstone project. Students will learn best practices for designing a marketable medical device, including the design process from the clinical problem definition through prototype and clinical testing to market readiness. Permission from instructor is required.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Philip Troyk ~ F from 10 AM to 12:30 PM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

BME 529: Design of Pharmaceutical Protein Formulations
This course introduces the discovery and development of pharmaceutical proteins and vaccines. The course focuses on understanding protein structure physical and chemical stability and identifying the cause of degradation processes in protein-based pharmaceutical products. Additionally, this course deals with vaccine-based formulations and their manufacturing process.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Settimio Pacelli ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

BME 538: Neuroimaging
This course describes the use of different imaging modalities to study brain function and connectivity. The first part of the course deals with brain function. It includes an introduction to energy metabolism in the brain, cerebral blood flow, and brain activation. It continues with an introduction to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), perfusion-based fMRI, Bold fMRI, fMRI paradigm design and statistical analysis, introduction to positron emission tomography, (PET) and studying brain function with PET, introduction to magneto encephalography (MEG) and studying brain function with MEG. The second part of the deals with brain connectivity. It includes an introduction to diffusion tensor MRI, explanation of the relationship between the diffusion properties of tissue its structural characteristics, and white matter fiber tractography techniques. Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Konstantinos Arfanakis ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in IIT Tower 6D6-1 (add to cart)

BME 545: Quantitative Neural Function
Computational approach to basic neural modeling and function, including cable theory, ion channels, presynaptic potentials, stimulation thresholds, and nerve blocking techniques. Synaptic function is examined at the fundamental level.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Keigo Kawaji ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 239 (add to cart)

BME 560: Methods in Biomedical Data Science
The course provides an overview of predictive and descriptive statistical modeling methods for large biomedical datasets. Building on undergraduate-level knowledge of statistics, the course introduces Bayes and information theory, develops from these modeling algorithms and provides a series of biomedical application areas. Methods include meta-analytic techniques, linear and non-linear dimensionality reduction, traditional “non-deep” predictive tools (e.g. perceptron, support vector machines, logistic regression, decision trees, boosting, etc.), and some applications of deep neural networks. Application areas may include medical imaging (e.g. image segmentation), EEG and ECG signal analysis (e.g. anomaly detection), genetics (e.g. imputation methods, polygenic risk score computation, cell-free DNA analysis, etc.). Each course module involves analysis of real data using existing modeling libraries and students’ own implementation. The predictive results may be compared to the state-of-the-art for each example dataset to assess the usefulness of the models. (3-0-3)
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Boris Gutman ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

BME 591: Research and Thesis for Master of Science Degree
Research and thesis for master of science degree students. Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Keigo Kawaji (add to cart)

BME 594: Special Projects
Special projects.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Abhinav Bhushan (add to cart)

BME 595: Seminar in Biomedical Engineering
Current research and development topics in biomedical engineering as presented by outside speakers, faculty and advanced students.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Boris Gutman ~ M from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

BME 597: Special Problems
Special problems.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Georgia Papavasiliou (add to cart)

BME 691: Research and Thesis PHD
Research and Thesis for PhD degree. (variable credit)
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Boris Gutman (add to cart)

BUS 102: Introduction to Business Analytics
This course builds competency with the most commonly used productivity suits used in business including MS Excel/Google Sheets, MS Access, MS Word/Google Docs, and MS PowerPoint/Google Slides while reinforcing business concepts, modes of thinking, and communication skills. Course sessions, held in a PC lab, will cover basic-through-intermediate skills for each application using exercises and mini-cases that require students to analyze business problems and consider how best to communicate information, results, and findings. Course work will be integrated across the various tools in the Office/Google suite and also across various business disciplines. Students will learn not just the computing tools themselves but also how such tools are used in today's business environment to manage information, analyze data, and communicate more effectively.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Pouya Haddadian Nekah ~ TR from 8:25 AM to 9:50 AM in IIT Tower 14C5-1 (add to cart)

BUS 210: Introduction to Accounting
This course introduces the student to basic financial and managerial accounting topics: GAAP, the major financial statements, accrual accounting, financial reporting alternatives, financial statement analysis, cost behavior, cost systems, short-term and long-term decision-making, and product costing. BUS 210 should not be taken by business majors.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Charles Hamilton ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in IIT Tower 6C7-1 (add to cart)

BUS 212: Managerial Accounting
This course introduces students to how managers use accounting information to make decisions and to monitor and control the operations of their businesses. Students will learn how an entity's profits respond to changes in sales volume, selling prices, and costs. They will also learn how to distinguish between relevant and irrelevant information and use the former to make sound business decisions. The principles introduced in this course are applicable to domestic and international businesses of all sizes.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Charles Hamilton ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Hermann Hall 005 (add to cart)

BUS 221: Business Statistics
Business decisions are often difficult and risky because decisions have to be made with incomplete and imperfect information. The primary purpose of this course is to introduce the basics of modeling and analyzing complex problems that involve business decision-making under uncertainty. Students will learn probability theory and some basic statistical concepts and procedures. The course emphasizes techniques for formulating decision problems and analyzing data. Students will also learn how to use computer software in decision and statistical analyses.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ghazale Haddadian ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in IIT Tower 14C7-1 (add to cart)

BUS 301: Organizational Behavior
Successful managers are able to align business strategies with the organization's culture and core competencies. In this course, students will develop the managerial skills needed to succeed in today's increasingly competitive global economy. The course explores how individuals are motivated to learn, decide, and coordinate in individual versus group settings. Students will apply these concepts to resolve a wide array of problems in real world organizational settings, such as creating an innovative culture, developing an effective performance management system, and managing a diverse workforce. Particular emphasis will be given to development of leadership skills and entrepreneurism.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Pouya Haddadian Nekah, Joel Goldhar ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in TBA (add to cart)

BUS 305: Operation and Supply Chain Analytics
This course introduces students to concepts and techniques related to the design, planning, control, and improvement of both service and manufacturing operations. The course helps students become conversant in the language of operations management and provides them with the quantitative and qualitative tools needed to analyze basic operations issues. It also describes the role of operations management in the overall strategy of a firm. The topics covered include process analysis, waiting line management, project management, inventory and supply chain management.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Pouya Haddadian Nekah, Joel Goldhar ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in TBA (add to cart)

BUS 341: Business Law
BUS 341 surveys the many challenges and opportunities faced by an entrepreneur in the modern global economy. The course begins with basic contract law, corporate law, and intellectual property law, and then goes on to explore organizational issues for entrepreneurs, the legal implications of debt and equity financing, the protection of the expression of ideas that is afforded by copyrights, and the protection of corporate goodwill that is afforded by trademark law, as well as the statutory restraints imposed by statutes such as the Financial Services Modernization Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ("HIPAA"), and the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act ("COPPA"). The course will broaden students' perspectives regarding the international legal and business environment by examining cross-border data privacy policies as well as statutes such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA").
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicole Lopatinsky ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Wishnick Hall 117 (add to cart)

BUS 351: Financial Decision Making and Capital Budgeting
BUS 351 introduces students to time value of money concepts and how these concepts are used in making long-term financial decisions. In addition, the course will expose students to after-tax cash flow analysis using a variety of decision models that are appropriate for sole proprietorships, partnerships, and corporations, whether they are newly-founded or established firms. Many of the principles introduced here can be applied to personal financial decisions such as retirement planning, car loan analyses and home mortgage analyses, for example.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Twombly ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

BUS 371: Marketing Fundamentals
BUS 371 focuses on the information, frameworks and techniques required to devise a marketing strategy for the organization. The course begins with an understanding of how to design products and services for consumers based on their needs and their budget constraints. It then moves to an evaluation of the capabilities of the firm, its collaborators, and its competitors in service of developing appropriate price and promotion strategies when going to market. This course has no formal pre-requisites, but students will benefit from a basic background in microeconomics and basic statistics.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Tarra Sharp ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

BUS 455: Corporate Finance
This course is an advanced introduction to modern corporate finance. Topics include cash flow forecasting, optimal dividend policies, mergers and acquisitions, structured finance, capital at risk, and the risk of adjusted return on capital. The philosophical foundation of the course is the concept of shareholder value added. Students will learn how financial decisions can contribute to the value of modern corporation.
Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Xinze Qian ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 106 (add to cart)

BUS 458: Financial Derivatives
This course provides the foundation for understanding the price and risk management of derivative securities. The course starts with simple derivatives (e.g., forwards and futures) and develops the concept of arbitrage-free pricing and hedging. Based upon the work of Black, Scholes, and Merton, the course extends their pricing model through the use of lattices, Monte Carlo simulation methods, and more advanced strategies. Mathematical tools in stochastic processes are gradually introduced. Particular emphasis is given to understanding option strategies.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Tao Wu ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in IIT Tower 6D6-1 (add to cart)

BUS 472: New Product Development
This course offers students a solid grounding in the theory and practice of new product development. Using a combination of theory-based lecture, hands-on exercises and assignments, and discussion, students will develop skills across the entire product development process--from opportunity identification through product launch.
Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ariel Rogers ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 121 (add to cart)

BUS 480: Strategic Management and Design Thinking
This three-credit course, mainly for Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA) students, combines strategic management and design thinking to help students develop into great managers after they graduate and gain professional experience. Students will examine how managers at various levels create/manage “high-performing” organizations and design products. This is a capstone course for undergraduate business degrees. Because of the capstone nature of this course, students will also integrate accounting, economics, finance, marketing, organizational behavior, statistics, strategy, and related disciplines into strategic management and product design. To do so, students will participate in CAPSIM Capstone business simulation, case-based learning activities, a product design exercise, and a term project. Students will deliver an oral presentation and submit peer-review documents to help other students. Students will summarize the term project into a written report. At the end of the semester, a student should be able to decide how to allocate resources, meet challenges and win the competition, and make a strategic organizational and product decision as if the student is a general manager.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sang-Baum Kang ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 121 (add to cart)

BUS 495: Special Topics in Business
This course will explore a business topic or application of current interest at the time the course is offered.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Dinakar Jayarajan ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in TBA (add to cart)

BUS 497: Independent Study in Business
Independent study in Business as designed to provide the student with an option to study a specific area of Business in more depth than is offered in the curriculum. For example, a student could expand upon subject matter contained in the existing curriculum, or the student could explore an area of business not currently in the curriculum. In either event, the student, the instructor, and the student's advisor must agree upon a plan of study prior to enrolling in the course. **Instructor permission required.**
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Charles Hamilton (add to cart)

BUS 510: Strategic Management
How do companies outperform their rivals to become market leaders in today's hyper-competitive global business environment? The answer lies in developing great strategies and executing them flawlessly. Strategic Management is the rigorous business process that helps you develop and execute highly effective strategies. The SM process has three major components: Analysis (of external and internal environments), Strategy (business-level, corporate and functional) and Performance (strategic competitiveness and above-normal profits). The course has a strong experiential learning component. With the help of a strategic management computer simulation game, you will run a simulated company in a highly competitive marketplace to outperform your competitors and become market leader. At the end of the course, you will learn business fundamentals, the strategic management process, strategy formulation and implementation, data-driven decision making, and a good understanding of accounting, finance, human resources, marketing and production. This graduate course is suitable for students with or without a business background.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ M Krishna Erramilli ~ S from 9 AM to 1 PM in Downtown Campus 590 (add to cart)

BUS 550: Business Statistics
This course covers statistics, optimization, and simulation tools that are critical for managers in enabling their firms to have a competitive advantage. The course covers probability, sampling, estimation, hypothesis testing, linear regression, ANOVA, goodness-of-fit tests, and managerial decision-making under uncertainty. The models address problems in a variety of business functional areas and business processes. The focus of the course is on using business analytics to build models and using software to aid in decision-making.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ghazale Haddadian ~ M from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 401 (add to cart)

BUS 571: Entrepreneurship Capstone Studio Course
The BUS 571 Capstone Studio course in the Master of Technological Entrepreneurship program provides students with a hands-on, real-world opportunity to complete a project in one of the three following roles: 1. Startup Founder: Bring your startup ideas to your Capstone project. Identify, investigate and/or evaluate the suitability of a product or service to the marketplace. 2. Creative Researcher/Research Commercialization: Apply your talents to investigate and/or evaluate a research-based technology for suitability as a product or service. 3. Corporate Innovator: Make an impact within a business or organization. Work with an existing company to evaluate and/or investigate a product or service opportunity for the company. Students will either build or join a small team to develop a prototype, engage customers and partners, and identify support and/or funding.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Nik Rokop ~ W from 3:15 PM to 4:45 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 107-5 (add to cart)

BUS 572: Entrepreneurship Capstone Studio Course
The BUS 572 Capstone Studio course provides students with a hands-on, real world opportunity to complete a project in one of the three following roles: 1. Startup Founder: Bring your startup ideas to your Capstone project. Identify, investigate and/or evaluate the suitability of a product or service to the marketplace. 2. Creative Researcher/Research Commercialization: Apply your talents to investigate and/or evaluate a research-based technology for suitability as a product or service. 3. Corporate Innovator: Make an impact within a business or organization. Work with an existing company to evaluate and/or investigate a product or service opportunity for the company. Students will either build or join a small team to develop a prototype, engage customers and partners, and identify support and/or funding.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Nik Rokop ~ W from 3:15 PM to 4:45 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 107-5 (add to cart)

BUS 592: Master of Technological Entrepreneurship Capstone Course
The BUS 592 Capstone course in the Master of Technological Entrepreneurship program provides students with a hands-on, real world opportunity to complete a project in one of the three following roles:

1. Startup Founder: Bring your startup ideas to your Capstone project. Identify, investigate and/or evaluate the suitability of a product or service to the marketplace.
2. Creative Researcher/Research Commercialization: Apply your talents to investigate and/or evaluate a research-based technology for suitability as a product or service.
3. Corporate Innovator: Make an impact within a business or organization. Work with an existing company to evaluate and/or investigate a product or service opportunity for the company.

Students will either build or join a small team to develop a prototype, engage customers and partners, and identify support and/or funding. Students are required to take BUS 592 in every semester of their program to facilitate application of learning to their project.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Nik Rokop ~ W from 3:15 PM to 4:45 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 107-5 (add to cart)

BUS 595: Special Topics: Business Administration
Special topics in business administration.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nik Rokop, Shivani Chokshi ~ F from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 107-3 (add to cart)

CAE 101: Introduction to AutoCAD Drawing and Design
A continuation of CAE 100. Use of PC-based CAD (Computer-Aided Drawing and Design) software for presentation and problem solving in civil and architectural engineering applications. Introduction to basic principles of design.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Edoarda Corradi Dell' Acqua ~ T from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 112J (add to cart)

CAE 111: Professional Practice II
This course is the second part in a sequence of two courses that introduce students to the civil, architectural, and environmental engineering professions through the lens of infrastructure, the built environment that makes our society possible. The class focus is on developing the skills to become a professional learner and a successful student, increasing team learning skills, self-reflection, enhancing ethical perception and decision making abilities, and understanding the responsibilities as an engineer. In simple terms, the student will begin to "act as an engineer acts." In addition, we will consider the steps required to successfully complete your degree, and how to prepare for your post-graduate career.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Brent Stephens ~ R from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

CAE 287: Mechanics of Structural Materials
The concepts of deformation, strain, and stress. Application of free body diagram in shear force and bending moment diagram. Elementary bending theory, normal and shear stresses in beams, and beam deflection. Axially loaded members and Euler buckling theory. Plane stress and strain, Mohr's circle, and torsion of circular sections. Combined loading.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gongkang Fu ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

CAE 302: Fluid Mechanics
Fundamental concepts; fluid properties; fluid statics; fluid kinematics; mass, energy, and momentum concepts; dimensional analysis; laminar and turbulent flow in closed conduits; flow in open channels; turbo machinery; drag forces; fluid measurement.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ David Lampert ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Siegel Hall 118 (add to cart)

CAE 303: Steel Structures I
Introduction to and discussion of Load and Resistance Factor Design and Allowable Stress Design, as well as their applicable load combinations, resistance factors and factors of safety as applied to steel structures – and their relationships with underlying concepts of structural behavior. Analytical study of steel materials subjected to various states of stress. Failure theories, yield and post-yield criteria. Design of tension members, columns, and beams, and simple connections for steel structures.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Stephen Kleps ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 152 (add to cart)

CAE 307: Concrete Structures I
Introduction to the design and underlying behavior of concrete structures. Proportioning of concrete mix designs, and fresh and hardened properties of concrete. Experimental and analytical study of plain and reinforced concrete subjected to various states of stress. Design loads, factors of safety, load and resistance factors. Failure theories and the ultimate strength of plain and reinforced concrete beams. Detailing of reinforcing bars.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Stephen Kleps, Matthew Gombeda ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:15 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 152 (add to cart)

CAE 312: Engineering Systems Analysis
Systems concept process, interest rate, present and future worth values, evaluation of alternatives, and elements of microeconomics. Theory of probability, laws of probabilities, random variables and distribution functions, functions of random variables, statistical estimations of data, mean and standard deviation, correlation, and regression analysis.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Seyedmohammad Miralinaghi ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 129 (add to cart)

CAE 323: Introduction to Geotechnical Engineering
Physical and mechanical properties of soil; elementary principles of soil identification and testing. Principles of soil permeability and seepage, consolidation, failure theories, earth pressures, and bearing capacity. Laboratory included.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Boyoung Jeong ~ MW from 9 AM to 9:50 AM in Perlstein Hall 131 (add to cart)

CAE 416: Facility Design of Transportation Systems
Design and analysis of facilities of transportation systems. Integration of select transportation components and their interrelationships. Design of specific facilities: guide ways, terminals, and other elements for railroads, airports, and harbors.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Soliman Khudeira ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

CAE 439: Introduction to Geographic Information Systems
Geographic information system (GIS) technology allows databases which display and query information in new ways. This course will teach general GIS and GPS skills and concepts, useful to students and practitioners in a variety of disciplines. Students will complete a final GIS project relevant to their field of study. This hands-on class will use ESRI's Arc View and Spatial Analyst products, as well as Trimble GeoExplorer GPS units.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Richard Schultz ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in TBA (add to cart)

CAE 453: Measurement and Instrumentation in Architectural Engineering
Hands-on experience with energy and indoor air quality measurements in buildings including experimental design, data analysis, and experimental statistics. Measurements and techniques covered include: thermal performance (e.g., thermal conductivity and resistance, heat flux, and temperature); fluid flows and HVAC characteristics (e.g., velocity, pressure, and airflow); energy performance (e.g., current, voltage, and power draw); whole building diagnostics (e.g., blower door and duct blaster); and indoor air quality (e.g., tracer gas techniques for air exchange, particle measurements, and gas measurements). Course combines lectures and field measurements in buildings on campus.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Brent Stephens, Mohammad Heidarinejad, Jongki Lee ~ T from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Alumni Memorial Hall 222 (add to cart)

CAE 463: Building Enclosure Design
Design of building exteriors, including the control of heat flow, air and moisture penetration, building movements, and deterioration. Study of the principle of rain screen walls and of energy conserving designs. Analytical techniques and building codes are discussed through case studies and design projects.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Thomas Zakrzewski ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Alumni Memorial Hall 218 (add to cart)

CAE 464: HVAC Systems Design
Study of the fundamental principles and engineering procedures for the design of heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems; HVAC system characteristics; system and equipment selection; duct design and layout. Attention is given to energy conservation techniques and computer applications.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohammad Heidarinejad ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

CAE 466: Building Electrical/Lighting Systems Design
Study of the analysis and design of electrical systems in buildings utilizing the National Electric Code. Topics include AC, DC, single-phase and three-phase circuits, transients, branch circuits, panel boards, system sizing, fault calculations and overcurrent protection design. Also studies the design and specification of emergency power backup and alternative power systems.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Deborah Steimel-Clair ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 238 (add to cart)

CAE 470: Construction Methods and Cost Estimating
The role of estimating in construction contract administration. Types of estimates. Unit costs and production rates; job costs. Preparing bid for complete building project using manual methods and the CSI format; checking quantity take-off and cost estimating in selected divisions using a computer package.
Spring 2025: 42 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Raymond Lemming, Lawrence Dorn ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Siegel Hall 118 (add to cart)

CAE 471: Construction Planning and Scheduling
Planning, scheduling, and progress control of construction operations. Critical Path Method and PERT. Resource leveling of personnel, equipment, and materials. Financial control/hauling of construction projects. Impact of delay on precedence networks. Construction contract administration. Computer applications.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Lipika Swarup ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 117 (add to cart)

CAE 472: Construction Site Operation
Construction site layout and mobilization. Liabilities of the parties. Methods of construction. Concrete form design and fabrication. Scaffolding, temporary facilities, and equipment. Safety on sites. Introduction to construction productivity.
Spring 2025: 31 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ August Domel ~ F from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

CAE 473: Construction Contract Administration
Characteristics of the construction industry. Project delivery systems. Duties and liabilities of the parties at the pre-contract stage. Bidding. Contract administration including duties and liabilities of the parties regarding payments, retainage, substantial and final completion, scheduling and time extensions, change orders, changed conditions, suspension of work, contract termination, and resolution of disputes. Contract bonds. Managing the construction company. Labor law and labor relations.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Christopher Haite ~ W from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Wishnick Hall 113 (add to cart)

CAE 474: Introduction to Building Information Modeling
Fundamentals and practical use of information technologies in design; basic concepts of building information modeling (BIM); review of software and technology available for BIM; practical use of BIM in design for creating a site, viewing a model, starting a project, working in the AutoDesk "Revit" Environment, adding basic building elements to a project, conceptual energy analysis, designing a preliminary layout, and presenting a project.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Julide Demirdoven ~ R from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Alumni Memorial Hall 218 (add to cart)

CAE 491: Undergraduate Research
Special research problems in civil and architectural engineering under individual supervision of instructor. Seminar presentation is required. (Credit: Variable; maximum 4 credit hours). Prerequisite: Senior standing, minimum GPA of 3.0, and consent of the instructor.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ David Lampert (add to cart)

CAE 495: Capstone Senior Design
A group project requiring the integration of multiple engineering disciplines to satisfy client requirements for a real engineering project. Students will be required to demonstrate mastery in the application of numerous engineering disciplines to a project, work as a member of an integrated engineering team, and demonstrate the ability to understand and communicate engineering solutions to a client verbally, visually, and in written form. Course is required to satisfy ABET program objectives.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Deborah Steimel-Clair ~ M from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Perlstein Hall 131 (add to cart)

CAE 496: Fundamentals of Engineering Preparation
Review of the materials covered in the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) Examination. Demonstrations of solution methods, practice problems and practice exams, and strategies for preparing for and taking the FE examination. Senior and Graduate students only.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Brent Stephens, Soliman Khudeira, Deborah Steimel-Clair (add to cart)

CAE 497: Special Project
Special design project under individual supervision of instructor. Prerequisite: Senior standing, minimum GPA of 3.0, and consent of instructor.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 15 sections)

CAE 517: HVAC Systems Design
Study of the fundamental principles and engineering procedures for the design of heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems; HVAC system characteristics; system and equipment selection; duct design and layout. Attention is given to energy conservation techniques and computer applications.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohammad Heidarinejad ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

CAE 518: Advanced Reinforced Concrete
Advanced topics in behavior and mechanics of reinforced concrete members: ultimate flexural strength, development of reinforcement, moment-curvature analysis, non-linear deflections, two- way slabs, deep beams, torsion, columns with biaxial bending, slender columns, and numerical methods. Strong emphasis is placed on the underlying structural behavior and its influence on building codes and design standards.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Matthew Gombeda ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

CAE 523: Statistical Analysis of Engineering Data
Descriptive statistics and graphs, probability distribution, random sampling, independence, significance tests, design of experiments, regression, time series analysis, statistical process control, and introduction to multivariate analysis.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Desch ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

CAE 524: Building Enclosure Design
Design of building exteriors, including the control of heat flow, air and moisture penetration, building movements, and deterioration. Study of the principle of rain screen walls and of energy conserving designs. Analytical techniques and building codes are discussed through case studies and design projects.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Thomas Zakrzewski ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Alumni Memorial Hall 218 (add to cart)

CAE 525: Advanced Steel Structures
Torsion and web openings. Behavior and design of rigid and semi rigid beam-to-column connections and base plates. Inelastic behavior of steel and composite members and systems under severe cyclic loading. Design of steel-concrete composite and hybrid systems. P-delta effect and design considerations for system stability. Design of special and ordinary moment- resisting frames. Design of concentrically and eccentrically braced frames. Design of bracing for stability. Plate girders. Fatigue and fracture.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gongkang Fu ~ W from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Stuart Building 238 (add to cart)

CAE 529: Dynamics of Structures
Fundamentals of free, forced, and transient undamped and viscously damped vibration of single and multi-degree of freedom structures. Time, frequency, and approximate methods of analysis. Application of numerical methods in time and frequency domain. Response spectra, modes, coupling and modal space. Response history and response spectrum analyses and an introduction to earthquake engineering.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mehdi Modares ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in TBA (add to cart)

CAE 530: Finite Element Method of Analysis
Advanced and special topics in finite element analysis such as finite element-boundary element method, plates, and shell analysis using finite elements.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mehdi Modares ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

CAE 539: Introduction to Geographic Information Systems
Geographic information system (GIS) technology allows users to combine tabular information with maps, creating powerful spatial databases which display and query information in new ways. This course will teach general GIS and GPS skills and concepts, useful to students and practitioners in a variety of disciplines. Students will complete a final GIS project relevant to their field of study. This hands-on class will use ESRI's ArcView and Spatial Analyst products, as well as Trimble GeoExplorer GPS units.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Richard Schultz ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in TBA (add to cart)

CAE 546: Public Transportation Systems
Operational and economic characteristics of urban systems. Transit planning process: demand for transit, transit routing, transit scheduling, network design. Improvements of existing systems and exploration of new technologies.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ P Sriraj ~ R from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

CAE 553: Measurement and Instrumentation in Architectural Engineering
Hands-on experience with energy and indoor environmental quality measurements in buildings including experimental design, data analysis, and experimental statistics. Measurements and techniques covered include: thermal performance (e.g., temperature, humidity, and heat flux); fluid flows and HVAC characteristics (e.g., velocity, pressure, and airflow rates); energy performance (e.g., current, voltage, and power draw); whole building diagnostics (e.g., envelope airtightness, ventilation performance, and duct leakage testing); and indoor air quality (e.g., tracer gas techniques, particle measurements, and gas measurements). Course combines lectures and field measurements in buildings on campus.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Brent Stephens, Mohammad Heidarinejad, Jongki Lee ~ T from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Alumni Memorial Hall 222 (add to cart)

CAE 555: Transportation Systems Evaluation
Concepts and principles of transportation economic analysis, transportation costs and benefits, user and nonuser consequences, needs studies, finance and taxation, methods for evaluation of plans and projects, cost-efficiency, cost-effectiveness, environmental impact assessment, and economic development assessment.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Zongzhi Li ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

CAE 557: Net Zero Energy Building Design II
An interdisciplinary project-based course in which students work in teams to design and provide full design documentation for a net zero energy building, meaning that it combines energy efficiency and renewable energy generation to consume only as much energy as can be produced onsite through renewable resources on an annual basis. Teams are expected to effectively and affordably integrate principles of building science, construction engineering and management, economic analysis, and architectural design in an integrated design process. Teams are required to submit full sets of plans, drawings, renderings, construction details, and analyses for energy efficiency, costs, affordability, environmental justice, equity, sustainability, and resiliency. The course aligns with a design competition, typically the Department of Energy's Solar Decathlon Design Challenge. The course prepares the next generation of architects, engineers, and construction managers with skills and expertise to start their careers and generate creative solutions for real-world net zero energy buildings. CAE 557 is the second course in a two-course series.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Edoarda Corradi Dell' Acqua ~ W from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 107-3 (add to cart)

CAE 569: Construction Methods, Cost Estimating, and Project Budgeting
The role of program management and project budgeting in establishing a construction project, estimating in construction design and contract administration. Types of estimates, unit costs and production rates; job costs. Preparing bid for complete building project using manual methods and the CSI format; checking quantity take-off and cost estimating in selected divisions using a computer software package.
Spring 2025: 30 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Raymond Lemming, Lawrence Dorn ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Siegel Hall 118 (add to cart)

CAE 577: Construction Equipment Management
Factors affecting the selection of construction equipment. Descriptions, operating methods, production rates, unit costs related to excavating equipment. Power shovels, draglines, clam shells, and trenching machines. Engineering fundamentals. Moving construction equipment, including trucks, wagons, scrapers, dozers, soil-stabilization and compaction equipment. Belt conveyors, compaction and drilling equipment, pile driving equipment, pumps and crushers.
Spring 2025: 23 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ibrahim Osman ~ R from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

CAE 591: Research and Thesis for M.S. Degree
Research and Thesis for M.S. Degree
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

CAE 594: Research Problems

Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Mehdi Modares (add to cart)

CAE 595: Current Issues in the Construction Industry
The task organization and operation of Design and Construction projects is reviewed. Each student selects a major issue/problem they have experienced on their projects as a basis for a podcast interview with the Professor. The other students in the class will provide input by direct participation or by use of the discussion board for that podcast. At the end of the semester each student submits a paper on the strategic directions of the Construction Industry using all the podcasts and their experience as a basis. At least 3 years' experience in the U.S. Canadian design and construction industry where project organizations are task organizations are task organized from many different companies and parties using contracts. The student has worked with the processes of RFP/Bid preparation, monthly Pay Apps, and Change Orders (Mods).
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Raymond Lemming ~ F from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 121 (add to cart)

CAE 597: Special Problems
Graduate course work in the problem subject matter. Subject matter will vary with the interests and background of students and instructor. Design or research problems may be assigned from the areas of architectural, construction, geotechnical, geoenvironmental, structural, or transportation engineering.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 12 sections)

CAE 691: Research and Thesis for Ph.D. Degree
Research and Thesis for Ph.D. degree
Spring 2025: Class (show all 7 sections)

CAPS 039: Advanced Communication for Multilingual Speakers
Students in this course will learn higher-level communication strategies necessary to achieve individual goals in academic, technical, and business environments. Upon completion of the course, students will demonstrate increased cultural and linguistic proficiency.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Elizabeth Johnson ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 106 (add to cart)

CAPS 051: Writing in the University for Multilingual Speakers of English
This course is designed to help international students develop skills in writing, reading and discussion as a means of discovering, questioning and analyzing ideas. Students will engage in reading a variety of texts on a theme, extrapolating key ideas, and developing their own claims through discussion, research writing, and presentation. Additionally, this course will provide support to address common writing issues for multilingual speakers of English as well as build intercultural competence in communication. Placement in this course is based on TOEFL/IELTS and/or placement exam results.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mary Jorgenson Sullivan ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 258 (add to cart)

CAPS 052: Chicago Voices
This English communication course will give international students the opportunity to expand their knowledge of Chicago’s history and culture while developing their voice through advanced conversation, presentation, and discussion skills. Through a storytelling and experiential lens, students will focus on articulating and responding to in-depth questions, applying advanced presentation skills, and using cultural and communicative skills to collaborate in dynamic city-focused discussions. Placement in this course is based on TOEFL/IELTS and/or placement exam results.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ellisa Cole ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Stuart Building 106 (add to cart)

CAPS 053: Global Issues through Literature
This reading and writing intensive course will give multilingual students the opportunity to engage with contemporary global topics affecting people across the world. Students will develop their critical reading skills through both fiction and non-fiction texts. Through writing-focused projects, students will grow their writing skills by evaluating evidence, integrating outside sources, and applying the writing process to create evidence-based and original texts. Placement in this course is based on TOEFL/IELTS and/or placement exam results.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Brian Casario ~ WF from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 106 (add to cart)

CAPS 054: Telling Your Story: Advanced Language Skills for Academics and Work
This course focuses on the most important topic of all: YOU! You have a unique story to tell – whether in an interview, a discussion, or a professional presentation – and this course will give students the opportunity to develop advanced language skills around each student’s field of study and interests. Through engaging with audio and video materials, active reading, and intensive speaking practice, students will work to develop personalized responses to a variety of behavioral interview questions, research and contribute information from their individual fields into a group discussion, as well as write and present on a technical topic to a general audience of students. Placement in this course is based on TOEFL/IELTS and/or placement exam results.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Elizabeth Johnson ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 106 (add to cart)

CAPS 059: Advanced Communication for Multilingual Speakers
Students in this course will learn higher-level communication strategies necessary to achieve individual goals in academic, technical, and business environments. Upon completion of the course, students will demonstrate increased cultural and linguistic proficiency.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Elizabeth Johnson ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 106 (add to cart)

CHE 101: Introduction to the Profession II
A continuation of CHE 100. Advanced engineering applications of productivity software. Engineering graphics and technical flow sheeting. Team project research and project management skills. Internet publishing.
Spring 2025: 21 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Donald Chmielewski ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:15 PM in Perlstein Hall 219A (add to cart)

CHE 202: Material Energy Balances
Material and energy balances for engineering systems subjected to chemical and physical transformations. Calculations on industrial processes.
Spring 2025: 21 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Victor Perez-Luna ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 107 (add to cart)

CHE 239: Mathematical and Computational Methods
Utilization of numeric and analytic methods to find solutions to a variety of chemical engineering problems. Emphasis placed on development of computer code, and interpretation of results. Topics covered include systems of algebraic equations, initial value differential equations, and boundary value differential equations.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Donald Chmielewski ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

CHE 301: Fluid Mechanics
Flow of fluids. Fundamentals of fluid flow design equations as applied to selected unit operations.
Spring 2025: 23 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohammad Asadi ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 204 (add to cart)

CHE 317: Chemical and Biological Engineering Laboratory I
Laboratory work in the unit operations of chemical engineering, fluid flow, heat transfer, and other selected topics.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Nader Aderangi ~ F from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Perlstein Hall 219A ~ F from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Perlstein Hall 112C (add to cart)

CHE 406: Transport Phenomena
The equations of change in different coordinate systems (mass, momentum, and energy transport). Velocity distribution in laminar and turbulent flow. Formulation and analytical solutions to the problems of viscous flow, molecular diffusion, heat conduction and convection.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jay Schieber ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

CHE 416: Technologies for Treatment of Diabetes
Study of physiological control systems and engineering of external control of biological systems by focusing on an endocrine system disorder -- diabetes. The effects of type 1 diabetes on glucose homeostasis and various treatment technologies for regulation of glucose concentration. Development of mathematical models describing the dynamics of glucose and insulin concentration variations, blood glucose concentration measurement and inference techniques, insulin pumps, and artificial pancreas systems.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ali Cinar ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

CHE 426: Statistical Tools for Engineers
Descriptive statistics and graphs, probability distributions, random sampling, independence, significance tests, design of experiments, regression, time series analysis, statistical process control, and introduction to multivariate analysis.
Spring 2025: 28 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Desch ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

CHE 451: Thermodynamics II
Second law analysis of cooling, separation, combustion, and other chemical processes. Chemical reaction equilibrium and processing applications.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sohail Murad ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Perlstein Hall 109 (add to cart)

CHE 491: Undergraduate Research
Students undertake an independent research project under the guidance of a chemical and biological engineering faculty member.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Sohail Murad (add to cart)

CHE 496: Process Design II
Group project in process design. Integration of technical, safety, environmental, economic, and societal issues in process development and design. Final part of the IPRO project package. Project teams consist of chemical engineering students and students from other disciplines and professions. Students from other academic units should register for designated section of IPRO 497 (three credits) and their contribution to the project tasks will be defined accordingly.
Spring 2025: 32 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Jeffrey Zalc ~ T from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Hermann Hall 010 (add to cart)

CHE 506: Entrepreneurship and Intellectual Property Management
Graduate standing or consent of instructor. This course aims to introduce and develop a number of diversified professional skills necessary for success in an engineering research and development environment. Selected topics covered in the areas of technology entrepreneurship, opportunity assessment, creativity and innovation, project management, management of organizational change, entrepreneurial leadership, and intellectual property management.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Robert Anderson ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in TBA (add to cart)

CHE 514: Process Analytical Technology
Process Analytical Technology (PAT) is introduced as a framework to enhance process understanding and assist in the development of reliable and efficient pharmaceutical operations. The course covers the definition of critical performance attributes within the context of FDA regulations; an overview of analytic measurement methods of chemical, physical and biological quantities; statistical data analysis and chemometric methods, including statistical process monitoring, multivariate analysis and parameter estimation; and design of real-time decision systems, including automatic control operations and risk-based analysis of final product quality. Prerequisite: BS in engineering or equivalent.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mudassir Rashid ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

CHE 516: Technologies for Treatment of Diabetes
Study of physiological control systems and engineering of external control of biological systems by focusing on an endocrine system disorder -- diabetes. The effects of type 1 diabetes on glucose homeostasis and various treatment technologies for regulation of glucose concentration. Development of mathematical models describing the dynamics of glucose and insulin concentration variations, blood glucose concentration measurement and inference techniques, insulin pumps, and artificial pancreas systems.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ali Cinar ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

CHE 525: Chemical Reaction Engineering
Advanced treatment of chemical kinetics and reactor systems including non-isothermal, nonideal flow systems. Modeling of complex reactions, catalysis and heterogeneous reactor analysis. Reactor stability concepts. Core course.
Spring 2025: 21 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Satish Parulekar ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

CHE 530: Advanced Process Control
State space, transfer function and discrete-time representations of process systems. Control system design. Interaction assessment. Multivariable and model predictive-control techniques. Core course.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Donald Chmielewski ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

CHE 560: Statistical Quality and Process Control
Basic theory, methods and techniques of on-line, feedback, quality-control systems for variable and attribute characteristics. Methods for improving the parameters of the production, diagnosis and adjustment processes so that quality loss is minimized. Same as MMAE 560.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Cesarone ~ MW from 6:25 PM to 7:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

CHE 591: Research and Thesis for M.S. Degree

Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Mohammad Asadi (add to cart)

CHE 593: Seminar in Chemical Engineering
Presentations on recent developments in the field by academic and industrial visitors.
Spring 2025: 50 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Mudassir Rashid ~ W from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Perlstein Hall 131 (add to cart)

CHE 594: Special Projects
Advanced projects involving computer simulation, modeling or laboratory work. (Credit: 1-6 hours.)
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Georgia Papavasiliou (add to cart)

CHE 597: Special Problems
Independent study and project. (Credit: variable)
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Sohail Murad (add to cart)

CHE 691: Research and Thesis for Ph.D. Degree

Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Mohammad Asadi (add to cart)

CHEM 122: Principles of Chemistry I Without Laboratory
An introduction to the foundations of chemistry, including: atoms and molecules; stoichiometry of chemical reactions; thermochemistry; properties of gases; states of matter, chemical solutions; the molecular basis for chemical reactivity; atomic structure; periodicity; and chemical bonding.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sameh Elsaidi ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

CHEM 123: General Chemistry Laboratory
General chemistry laboratory. The laboratory portion of CHEM 122.
Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Cinthya Osuna ~ F from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 212 (add to cart)

CHEM 124: Principles of Chemistry I with Laboratory
An introduction to the foundations of chemistry, including: atoms and molecules; stoichiometry of chemical reactions; thermochemistry; properties of gases; states of matter, chemical solutions; the molecular basis for chemical reactivity; atomic structure; periodicity; and chemical bonding.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sameh Elsaidi ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

CHEM 125: Principles of Chemistry II with Laboratory
A continuing introduction to the foundations of chemistry, including: chemical equilibria; the chemistry of acids and bases; solubility and precipitation reactions; kinetics; thermodynamics; electrochemistry; nuclear chemistry; and the basics of organic chemistry.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

CHEM 126: Principles of Chemistry II Without Laboratory
Same as CHEM 125 except without the laboratory.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Benjamin Zion ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

CHEM 239: Organic Chemistry II
Sequel to Organic Chemistry I with more emphasis on structure and reactivity of several classes of organic compounds including introductory discussion on common spectroscopic techniques.
Spring 2025: 35 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Katherine Leight ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

CHEM 240: Organic Chemistry Laboratory
Basic techniques for advanced organic preparations. Interpretation of scientific results including percent yield, melting point, boiling point, IR, and NMR spectra.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Katherine Leight ~ M from 3:15 PM to 4:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 116 (add to cart)

CHEM 343: Physical Chemistry I
Thermodynamic laws and relationships applied to chemical systems. Kinetic theory of gases. Equations of state for ideal and real gases. Calculation of state functions from arbitrary pathways using measurable partial derivatives. Chemical potential and the prediction of phase and reaction equilibria.
Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Benjamin Zion ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

CHEM 344: Physical Chemistry II
Introduction to quantum mechanics. Applying quantum mechanics to chemical systems. Atomic structure and spectra. Molecular structure and spectroscopy. Statistical mechanics. Chemical kinetics. The laboratory will include experiments dealing with thermochemistry, phase equilibria, chemical kinetics, spectra, molecular structure, and treatment of data.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Benjamin Zion ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 213 (add to cart)

CHEM 416: Advanced Chemistry Laboratory
This advanced laboratory emphasizes chemical synthesis and characterization of inorganic and organometallic compounds. Air and moisture-sensitive techniques are introduced and employed. The synthesis and characterization of nanomaterials is also featured.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Adam Hock ~ W from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 212 (add to cart)

CHEM 434: Spectroscopic Methods in Identification and Analysis
Characterization and analysis by mass, vibrational, nuclear magnetic resonance, and electronic spectroscopy. Structure-spectra correlations applied to organic and inorganic compounds with examples drawn from diverse areas, e.g., pollutants, toxic materials, polymers, etc. The laboratory work includes characterization of prepared or separated organic compounds by chromatographic, chemical, and spectroscopic methods.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Somdev Banerjee ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 116 (add to cart)

CHEM 450: Introduction to Research
Designed to give research experience in a faculty research laboratory.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Xiyun Guan (add to cart)

CHEM 451: Undergraduate Seminar
An overview of a variety of chemical information tools and major scientific databases for navigating primary scientific literature. There will be a focus on the written and oral presentation of scientific research and the critical evaluation of the same types of scientific communication. Professional development with discussions of behavior, ethics, and career paths.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Somdev Banerjee ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 116 (add to cart)

CHEM 485: Chemistry Colloquium
Lectures by prominent scientists. This course exposes students to current and active research in chemistry both within and outside the IIT community. It helps prepare students for a career in research. It is complementary to the academic courses and provides examples of professional/scientific presentations. This course may not be used to satisfy the natural science general education requirement.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ M. Ishaque Khan ~ T from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

CHEM 487: Senior Thesis in Chemistry
Original work carried on by the student under the guidance of a staff member. A careful search of the literature is required before the study is begun, and continued reference to the chemical literature is expected as the work progresses. A written report is required.
Spring 2025: Independent Study/Research (show all 7 sections)

CHEM 495: Seminar in Special Topics
This seminar course is designed to provide students with opportunities to learn about recent development in specialized chemistry areas including bioanalytical chemistry, environmental chemistry, forensic chemistry, medicinal chemistry, and computational chemistry and biochemistry. Students are expected to develop written and oral communication skills on the advanced and specialized topics. Prerequisites or Instructor Approval
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Hyun-Soon Chong ~ R from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 106 (add to cart)

CHEM 497: Special Projects
For juniors and seniors.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Yuanbing Mao (add to cart)

CHEM 500: Advanced Analytical Chemistry
An overview of analytical chemistry with discussions of complex ionic equilibria, electro analytical techniques including potentiometric, voltametric, coulometric and conductometric methods, ion chromatography, capillary electrophoresis and sensor technology.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Diep Nguyen (add to cart)

CHEM 501: Capstone Project
This course will educate students in the area of quality process and quality manufacturing. Student will work with the instructor to plan and conduct research on a project that is relevant to the analytical chemistry program of study. The project must be approved by the Master of Chemistry in Analytical Program Director.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Internet) ~ Diep Nguyen (add to cart)

CHEM 503: Survey of Analytical Chemistry
This course covers modern aspects of chemical analysis. It is designed to give the student a solid conceptual ground to understand how a given analytical technique works including its limits and advantages. The emphasis is on solutions analysis and the course is roughly divided into: (i) Basic measurements and concepts; (ii) spectroscopy; and (iii) chromatography and mass spectrometry. Upon completion of this course, the student will be able to: describe the basic setup and operation of separation, mass spectrometric, and spectroscopic instrumentation; interpret spectra from various instruments as a means for qualitative and quantitative analysis; apply basic knowledge of separation technique, mass spectrometry, and spectroscopy for practical problem solving; relate the use of separation technique, mass spectrometry, and spectroscopy to his or her own research interests; and compile, present, and explain modern techniques for analytical research. Topics includes high-performance liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, atomic spectrometry, molecular spectrometry, UV/vis spectroscopy, molecular luminescence, infrared spectrometry, mass spectrometry, radio chemistry, raman spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, etc.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mona Mohamed ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 116 (add to cart)

CHEM 509: Physical Methods of Characterization
A survey of physical methods of characterization including x-ray diffraction and fluorescence surface techniques including SEM, TEM, AES and ESCA, thermal methods and synchrotron radiation methods.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Sajo Naik (add to cart)

CHEM 518: Understanding the International Conference on Harmonization Guidelines
The International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) was revolutionized in the 1980's to provide a forum for the pharmaceutical industry to discuss regulatory requirements for registration of new chemical entity. These guidelines have been significantly influenced the content of FDA draft guidelines to develop the scientific information and manufacturing controls. Thus, proper understanding of these guidelines is essential in the drug development process. This course will be designed to focus exclusively on guidelines associated with the registration of small molecules. Completing this course, students will understand the expectations set forth in various FDA and ICH quality topics in order to implement these guidelines and/or engage the regulatory agencies in dialogue in order to provide justification of data or present clear scientific rationale.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kim Huynh-Ba (add to cart)

CHEM 520: Advanced Inorganic Chemistry
Selective treatment of the chemistries of main group and transition elements with emphasis on coordination complexes, organometallic compounds and inorganic cages and clusters. Discussions of molecular symmetry, stereochemistry, bonding, electronic spectra, magnetic properties, reactions, kinetics and reaction mechanisms are included.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sameh Elsaidi ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 204 (add to cart)

CHEM 560: Advanced Chemistry Projects
Advanced chemistry projects to be carried out under the direction of a faculty member. These projects may involve computational, theoretical, experimental work or a combination of these. Projects based on experimental work may be carried out in the research lab of the instructor. Topics of the advanced projects will be selected by the faculty member offering the course and will not necessarily be related to the dissertation topic of the student. May be taken more than once and up to 12 credit hours.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Xiyun Guan (add to cart)

CHEM 561: Laboratory Rotations
This course requires each student to complete research rotations in three different laboratories, 4 weeks in each lab. It allows students to explore various areas of chemical research before committing to a single lab to conduct thesis research. The course intends to give students an opportunity to learn what research topics excite them, what techniques they favor and what lab environment is a good fit. At the same time, rotations provide faculty the mechanism for evaluating students as candidates to join their lab. Submission of a report is required upon the completion of each rotation.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Mona Mohamed (add to cart)

CHEM 585: Chemistry Colloquium
Lectures by invited scientists in areas of chemistry generally not covered in the department. Must be taken two time by M.S. students and four time by PhD. students.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ M. Ishaque Khan ~ T from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

CHEM 591: Research and Thesis
(Credit: Variable)
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Yuanbing Mao (add to cart)

CHEM 597: Reading and Special Problems
Independent study to meet the special needs of graduate students in department-approved graduate degree programs. Requires the written consent of the instructor. May be taken more than once. Receives a letter grade. (Credit: Variable)
Spring 2025: Class (show all 6 sections)

CHEM 685: Chemistry Colloquium
Lectures by invited scientists in areas of chemistry generally not covered in the department.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ M. Ishaque Khan ~ T from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

CHEM 691: Research and Thesis Ph.D.
(Credit: Variable) Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Yuanbing Mao (add to cart)

COM 101: Writing in the University
A study of the use of writing, reading, and discussion as a means of discovering, questioning, and analyzing ideas, with an emphasis on audience, context and the use of revision. This course satisfies the Basic Writing Proficiency Requirement. It does not satisfy a general education requirement in the Humanities and Social or Behavioral Sciences.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Naum Neskoski ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Alumni Memorial Hall 218 (add to cart)

COM 111: Writing in the University for Multilingual Speakers of English
This course is designed to help international students develop skills in writing, reading and discussion as a means of discovering, questioning and analyzing ideas. Students will engage in reading a variety of texts on a theme, extrapolating key ideas, and developing their own claims through discussion, research writing, and presentation. Additionally, this course will provide support to address common writing issues for multilingual speakers of English as well as build intercultural competence in communication. Placement in this course is based on TOEFL/IELTS and/or placement exam results. Equivalent to COM 101. This course satisfies IIT's Basic Writing Proficiency Requirement. It does not satisfy a general education requirement in the humanities and social or behavioral sciences.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 258 (add to cart)

COM 112: Chicago Voices
This English communication course will give international students the opportunity to expand their knowledge of Chicago’s history and culture while developing their voice through advanced conversation, presentation, and discussion skills. Through a storytelling and experiential lens, students will focus on articulating and responding to in-depth questions, applying advanced presentation skills, and using cultural and communicative skills to collaborate in dynamic city-focused discussions. Placement in this course is based on TOEFL/IELTS and/or placement exam results.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ellisa Cole ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Stuart Building 106 (add to cart)

COM 201: Digital Writing
The rhetorical theory and applied practice of digital writing. Topics include word processor alternatives, social media for professional development, multimedia writing, and collaboration and project management.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohamed El Marzouki ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 034 (add to cart)

COM 212: Telling Your Story: Advanced Language Skills for Academics and Work
This course focuses on the most important topic of all: YOU! You have a unique story to tell – whether in an interview, a discussion, or a professional presentation – and this course will give students the opportunity to develop advanced language skills around each student’s field of study and interests. Through engaging with audio and video materials, active reading, and intensive speaking practice, students will work to develop personalized responses to a variety of behavioral interview questions, research and contribute information from their individual fields into a group discussion, as well as write and present on a technical topic to a general audience of students. Placement in this course is based on TOEFL/IELTS and/or placement exam results.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Elizabeth Johnson ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 106 (add to cart)

COM 310: The Human Voice: Description, Analysis and Application
Analysis of human and synthetic speech intended for technology mediated environments and devices. Focus on talker characteristics that affect speech intelligibility and social factors that affect talker characteristics. Attention to design characteristics of technology-mediated speech and how humans react to it.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Matthew Bauer ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Siegel Hall 204 (add to cart)

COM 380: Topics in Communication
An investigation into a topic of current interest in communication, which will be announced by the instructor when the course is scheduled.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohamed El Marzouki ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 122 (add to cart)

COM 421: Technical Communication
Principles and practice in the communication of technical materials. Students work on the design, writing, and revising of reports, articles, manuals, procedures, proposals, including the use of graphics. Works by modern writers are analyzed.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Katerina Ilievska (add to cart)

COM 424: Document Design
Principles and strategies for effective document and information design, focusing on print media. Students design, produce, and evaluate documents for a variety of applications, such as instructional materials, brochures, newsletters, graphics, and tables.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Andrew Roback ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in TBA (add to cart)

COM 491: Independent Reading and Research
Consent of department. For advanced students. Based on the selected topic, this course may or may not be applied to the humanities general education requirement. Consult the course instructor.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Carly Kocurek (add to cart)

COM 510: The Human Voice: Description, Analysis, and Application
Analysis of human and synthetic speech intended for technology mediated environments and devices. Focs on talker characteristics that affect speech intelligibility and social factors that affect talker characteristics. Attention to design characteristics of technology mediated speech and how humans react to it.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Matthew Bauer ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Siegel Hall 204 (add to cart)

COM 523: Communicating Science
This course focuses on strategies for communicating scientific information in professional settings. Students develop a literature review, proposal, and feasibility study; learn how to adapt scientific information to various audiences; and complete exercises on style, grammar, and other elements of effective professional communication. Emphasis on usability, cohesion, and style in each assignment.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Maciukenas (add to cart)

COM 525: User Experience Research and Evaluation
An introduction to principles of user-centered design and to methods for conducting user experience research. Students will learn how to plan and conduct projects that evaluate the design, interface, and experience of a product or service. Course work includes designing studies, collecting and interpreting data, and reporting findings and recommendations from the perspective of user-centered design.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Warner Rodda ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 107-3 (add to cart)

COM 528: Document Design
Principles and strategies for effective document and information design focusing on print media and familiarizing students with current research and theory as well as with practices in document design. Students design, produce, and evaluate documents for a variety of applications, such as instructional materials, brochures, newsletters, graphics, and tables.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Andrew Roback ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in TBA (add to cart)

COM 545: Academic Writing
This course familiarizes graduate students with both reading and writing academic texts across disciplines. Students will practice reading, analyzing, and developing written and spoken academic genres (e.g., reviews, articles, conference papers and talks, CVs, cover letters). Special attention is paid to analyzing and evaluating academic journals and conferences; submitting items to journals and conferences; navigating the research, writing, and publication process; revising work and providing feedback to others; and mastering the conventions of academic writing.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Hannah Muller ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Siegel Hall 204 (add to cart)

COM 580: Topics in Communication
This course has variable content depending on the topic in communication chosen by the instructor. Topics may include the technical and cultural history of digital media, video games, academic writing, and humanities research methods.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohamed El Marzouki ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 122 (add to cart)

COM 591: Research and Thesis for Master's Degree
Permission of instructor required.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Independent Study/Research) ~ Mohamed El Marzouki (add to cart)

COM 594: Project
Projects will require students to complete a theoretically based analysis of a practical communication situation, create a document appropriate to the situation, and write and analysis of or commentary on the choices made in the production of the document. (Credit: Variable. Most M.S. students take 6 credits of project studies)
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Independent Study/Research) ~ Mohamed El Marzouki (add to cart)

COM 597: Special Problems
Permission of instructor required.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Jennifer deWinter (add to cart)

COM 691: Research & Thesis Ph.D.
This is a variable credit course which Ph. D. candidates sign up for as they work on their dissertations. Permission of instructor required.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Elisabeth Hildt (add to cart)

CS 100: Introduction to the Profession
An introduction to science and engineering as a profession. Examines the problem-solving process used in engineering and science. Emphasizes the interdisciplinary and international nature of problem-solving and the need to evaluate solutions in terms of a variety of constraints: computational, financial, and social.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Lan Yao (add to cart)

CS 104: Introduction to Computer Programming for Engineers
Introduces the use of high-level programming language as a problem-solving tool in engineering including basic data structures and algorithms, structured programming techniques, and software documentation. Designed for students who have had little or no prior experience with computer programming. Students should only take one of these courses (CS 104, CS 105, CS 115).
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jon Hanrath ~ MW from 9 AM to 9:50 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 104 (add to cart)

CS 110: Computing Principles
An introduction to the following "big ideas" of computer science:
(1) computing is a creative activity; (2) abstraction reduces information and detail to facilitate focus on relevant concepts; (3) data and information facilitate the creation of knowledge; (4) algorithms are used to develop and express solutions to computational problems; (5) programming enables problem solving, human expression, and creation of knowledge; (6) the internet pervades modern computing; and (7) computing has global impacts.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Matthew Bauer ~ W from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 122 (add to cart)

CS 115: Object-Oriented Programming I
Introduces the use of a high-level object-oriented programming language as a problem-solving tool, including basic data structures and algorithms, object-oriented programming techniques, and software documentation. Designed for students who have had little or no prior experience with computer programming. For students in CS and CS-related degree programs. Students should only take one of these courses (CS 104, CS 105, CS 115).
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jon Hanrath ~ MW from 10 AM to 10:50 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 103 (add to cart)

CS 116: Object-Oriented Programming II
Introduces more advanced elements of object-oriented programming, including dynamic data structures, recursion, searching and sorting, and advanced object-oriented programming techniques. For students in CS and CS-related degree programs.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 12 sections)

CS 201: Accelerated Introduction to Computer Science
Problem-solving and design using an object-oriented programming language. Introduces a variety of problem-solving techniques, algorithms, and data structures in object-oriented programming.
Spring 2025: 30 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gerald Balekaki ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Hermann Hall 005 (add to cart)

CS 330: Discrete Structures
Introduction to the use of formal mathematical structures to represent problems and computational processes. Topics covered include Boolean algebra, first-order logic, recursive structures, graphs, and abstract language models. Credit will not be granted for both CS 330 and MATH 230.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Lan Yao ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Perlstein Hall 131 (add to cart)

CS 331: Data Structures and Algorithms
Implementation and application of the essential data structures used in computer science. Analysis of basic sorting and searching algorithms and their relationship to these data structures. Particular emphasis is given to the use of object-oriented design and data abstraction in the creation and application of data structures.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 6 sections)

CS 340: Programming Paradigms and Patterns
This class balances the imperative, object-oriented bent of the introductory programming sequence by presenting alternative programming paradigms and asks students to write complex programs from scratch while amassing a repertoire of reusable programming patterns and techniques. Programming assignments, drawn from various domains of computer science, will highlight the importance of selecting appropriate data structures, algorithms, and techniques for the problem at hand.
Spring 2025: 36 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Lee ~ WF from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

CS 350: Computer Organization and Assembly Language Programming
Introduction to the internal architecture of computer systems, including micro-, mini-, and mainframe computer architectures. Focuses on the relationship among a computer's hardware, its native instruction set, and the implementation of high-level languages on that machine. Uses a set of assembly language programming exercises to explore and analyze a microcomputer architecture. Credit will not be granted for both CS 350 and ECE 242.
Spring 2025: 40 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Lan Yao ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 104 (add to cart)

CS 351: Systems Programming
Examines the components of sophisticated multilayer software systems, including device drivers, systems software, applications interfaces, and user interfaces. Explores the design and development of interrupt-driven and event-driven software.
Spring 2025: 26 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Farshad Ghanei ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Perlstein Hall 131 (add to cart)

CS 401: Introduction to Advanced Studies I
First course in a two-course sequence that is designed to prepare students for graduate study in computer science. Explores the implementation and application of fundamental data structures and algorithms with an emphasis on object-oriented programming in Java. Examines the relationship between these elements and the mathematical structures that form the foundation of computer science. This course does not apply toward M. S./Ph. D. credit in Computer Science.
Spring 2025: 24 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Choi ~ W from 3:15 PM to 4:55 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

CS 402: Introduction to Advanced Studies II
Second course in a two-course sequence that is designed to prepare students for graduate study in computer science. Explores the development of the multiple layers of software that form a sophisticated software system, from device drivers to application interfaces to user interfaces. Examines how computer architecture influences software development. Emphasizes the design and implementation of interrupt-driven/event-driven software.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Virgil Bistriceanu ~ M from 6:25 PM to 8:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

CS 422: Data Mining
This course will provide an introductory look at concepts and techniques in the field of data mining. After covering the introduction and terminologies to Data Mining, the techniques used to explore the large quantities of data for the discovery of meaningful rules and knowledge such as market basket analysis, nearest neighbor, decision trees, and clustering are covered. The students learn the material by implementing different techniques throughout the semester.
Spring 2025: 26 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Vijay Gurbani ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

CS 425: Database Organization
Overview of database architectures, including the Relational, Hierarchical, Network, and Object Models. Database interfaces, including the SQL query language. Database design using the Entity-Relationship Model. Issues such as security, integrity, and query optimization.
Spring 2025: 30 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yousef Elmehdwi ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 104 (add to cart)

CS 430: Introduction to Algorithms
Introduction to the design, behavior, and analysis of computer algorithms. Searching, sorting, and combinatorial algorithms are emphasized. Worst case, amortized, and expected bounds on time and space usage.
Spring 2025: 47 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gruia Calinescu ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 129 (add to cart)

CS 440: Programming Languages and Translators
Study of commonly used computer programming languages with an emphasis on precision of definition and facility in use. Scanning, parsing, and introduction to compiler design. Use of compiler generating tools.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Lee ~ WF from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

CS 442: Mobile Applications Development
Students will learn a variety of software engineering techniques and design patterns to assist in the rapid development and prototyping of applications, leveraging frameworks and APIs provided by current mobile development platforms (such as Android and iOS). Application lifecycles, data management and persistence mechanisms, and user interface design, among other topics, will be covered. Industry speakers will be invited to speak about best practices. Students (individually or in teams) will take ideas from concept to final implementation and will present their work at the end of the semester. When appropriate, students may take the additional step of deploying their work on the appropriate application marketplace(s).
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Lee ~ WF from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 113 (add to cart)

CS 450: Operating Systems
Introduction to operating system concepts-including system organization for uniprocessors and multiprocessors, scheduling algorithms, process management, deadlocks, paging and segmentation, files and protection, and process coordination and communication.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

CS 456: Introduction to Wireless Networks and Performance
This class provides an opportunity for students to obtain a fundamental understanding of the nature and operation of the full range of wireless networks (personal, local area, wide area, and satellite) and their performance characteristics, future potential, and challenges through class lectures, assigned readings, homework, projects, and various hands-on experiences.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Cynthia Hood ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

CS 458: Introduction to Information Security
An introduction to the fundamentals of computer and information security. This course focuses on algorithms and techniques used to defend against malicious software. Topics include an introduction to encryption systems, operating system security, database security, network security, system threats, and risk avoidance procedures.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sajad Meisami ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 104 (add to cart)

CS 470: Computer Architecture
Introduction to the functional elements and structures of digital computers. Detailed study of specific machines at the register transfer level illustrates arithmetic, memory, I/O and instruction processing.
Spring 2025: 50 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Minxuan Zhou ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

CS 480: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
Introduction to computational methods for intelligent control of autonomous agents, and the use of programming paradigms that support development of flexible and reactive systems. These include heuristic search, knowledge representation, constraint satisfaction, probabilistic reasoning, decision-theoretic control, and sensor interpretation. Particular focus will be places on real-world application of the material.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jacek Dzikowski ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

CS 484: Introduction to Machine Learning
An introduction to machine learning concepts and algorithms, including classification, clustering, and regression. Topics include k-means clustering, nearest neighbors classification, decision trees, naive Bayes, logistic regression, support vector machines, and neural networks. Special focus will be on practical aspects of machine learning, including data preparation, experimental design, and modern tools for building machine learning systems. Basic probability theory knowledge is required.
Spring 2025: 32 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Shouvik Roy ~ WF from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

CS 485: Computers and Society
Discussion of the impact of computer technology on present and future society. Historical development of the computer. Social issues raised by cybernetics.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jon Hanrath ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 108 (add to cart)

CS 487: Software Engineering I
Study of the principles and practices of software engineering. Topics include software quality concepts, process models, software requirements analysis, design methodologies, software testing and software maintenance. Hands-on experience building a software system using the waterfall life cycle model. Students work in teams to develop all life cycle deliverables: requirements document, specification and design documents, system code, test plan, and user manuals.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Dennis Hood ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

CS 491: Undergraduate Research
**Instructor permission required.**
Spring 2025: Class (show all 14 sections)

CS 495: Topics in Computer Science
This course will treat a specific topic, varying from semester to semester, in which there is particular student or staff interest.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yousef Elmehdwi ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

CS 497: Special Projects
Special projects.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 14 sections)

CS 512: Computer Vision
Introduction to fundamental topics in computer vision and the application of deep neural networks to this area. Intended to give the student a good basis for work in this important field. Topics include: Geometric image formation, Feature extraction, Object recognition, Object detection, Semantic segmentation, Probabilistic modeling, Camera calibration, Epipolar geometry, Model reconstruction, Optical flow, Motion estimation.
Spring 2025: 39 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gady Agam ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Stuart Building 104 (add to cart)

CS 525: Advanced Database Organization
Comprehensive coverage of the problems involved in database system implementation and an in-depth examination of contemporary structures and techniques used in modern database management systems. Teaches advanced skills appropriate for DBMS architects and developers , database specialist, and the designers and developers of client/server and distributed systems. Focus is on transaction management, database structures and distributed processing.
Spring 2025: 31 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gerald Balekaki ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Stuart Building 104 (add to cart)

CS 530: Theory of Computation
Computability topics such as Turing machines, nondeterministic machines, undecidability, and reducibility. Computational complexity topics such as time complexity, NP-completeness and intractability, time and space hierarchy theorems. Introduces the complexity classes P, NP, NL, L, PSPACE, NC, RNC, BPP and their complete problems.
Spring 2025: 76 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sanjiv Kapoor ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Stuart Building 113 (add to cart)

CS 534: Types and Programming Languages
Many useful features of modern programming languages, such as anonymous functions (lambdas), generics, and ownership, have arisen out of research into the fundamentals of programming languages. This course will introduce students to those fundamentals: students will learn the tools and techniques used by programming languages researchers to model programs, type systems, and the design choices made in the creation of programming languages. There will be a particular focus on type systems, which provide many programming languages with a certain guarantee of runtime safety: usually that type errors will not occur at runtime, but more advanced type systems can guarantee information security, data-race-freedom and many other desirable properties. Students will see how type systems are designed, and how these safety properties of typed programs are proven. The course will also explore some applications of type systems in modern programming language research and practice.
Spring 2025: 49 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Farzaneh Derakhshan ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 113 (add to cart)

CS 535: Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Design of efficient algorithms for a variety of problems, with mathematical proof of correctness and analysis of time and space requirements. Topics include lower bounds for sorting and medians, amortized analysis of advanced data structures, graph algorithms (strongly connected components, shortest paths, minimum spanning trees, maximum flows and bipartite matching) and NP-Completeness.
Spring 2025: 41 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Peng-Jun Wan ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 104 (add to cart)

CS 536: Science of Programming
Formal specification of how programs execute operational semantics , how mathematical functions programs compute denotational semantics , and how to use logic to characterize properties and invariants of the program execution (axiomatic semantics).
Spring 2025: Class (show all 6 sections)

CS 538: Combinatorial Optimization
Linear programs and their properties. Efficient algorithms for linear programming. Network flows, minimum cost flows, maximum matching, weighted matching, matroids.Prerequisite:CS 430 and a linear algebra course.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gruia Calinescu ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 225 (add to cart)

CS 542: Computer Networks I: Fundamentals
This course focuses on the engineering and analysis of network protocols and architecture in terms of the Internet. Topics include content distribution, peer-to-peer networking, congestion control, unicast and multicast routing, router design, mobility, multimedia networking quality of service, security and policy-based networking.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Edward Chlebus ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Wishnick Hall 113 (add to cart)

CS 547: Wireless Networking
This course introduces cellular/PCS systems, short-range mobile wireless systems, fixed wireless systems, satellites, and ad hoc wireless systems. It explains in detail the underlying technology as well as regulations, politics, and business of these wireless communications systems. It looks beyond the hype, examining just what is and is not possible with present-day and future wireless systems. As an advanced graduate course, it will combine extensive reading and in-class discussion of the research literature with in-depth independent research projects of students' own choosing.
Spring 2025: 56 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Peng-Jun Wan ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 113 (add to cart)

CS 549: Cryptography
Cryptography provides foundations for ensuring the confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and privacy of the increasing sensitive information in digital world. It
is a theoretical field that relies on a diverse and wide variety of mathematics. The topics in this course include encryption, message authentication codes, digital signatures, public key crypto-systems, key exchange, identification protocols, zero-knowledge proof systems, etc. The goal of this course is to help students develop a solid understanding of the fundamentals of security and become familiar with the theories of cryptography as well as the role of cryptography in the recent and emerging applications.
Spring 2025: 31 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Lan Yao ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

CS 550: Advanced Operating Systems
Advanced operating system design concepts such as interprocess communication, distributed processing, replication and consistency, fault tolerance, synchronization, file systems. Study of systems highlighting these concepts.
Spring 2025: 53 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Xian-He Sun ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

CS 551: Operating System Design and Implementation
This course covers in detail the design and implementation of processes, interprocess communication, semaphores, monitors, message passing, scheduling algorithm, input/output, device drivers, memory management, file system design, security and protection mechanisms. The hardware-software interface and the user process-system call-kernel interface are examined in detail. Students modify and extend a multiuser operating system.
Spring 2025: 49 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Farshad Ghanei ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

CS 554: Data-Intensive Computing
This course is a tour through various research topics in distributed data-intensive computing, covering topics in cluster computing, grid computing, supercomputing, and cloud computing. The course will explore solutions and learn design principles for building large network-based computational systems to support data-intensive computing. This course is geared for junior/senior-level undergraduates and graduate students in computer science.
Spring 2025: 77 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ioan Raicu ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

CS 577: Deep Learning
Deep neural networks form an important sub-field of machine learning that is responsible for much of the progress in in cognitive computing in recent years in areas of computer vision, audio processing, and natural language processing. Deep networks can be trained with a single end-to-end model and bypass the need for traditional task-specific feature engineering. In this way deep learning simplifies learning tasks and allows using developed models to new tasks. Deep networks are suitable for parallel processing implementations and can easily leverage intensive computational resources. The course will focus on mathematical concepts, numerical algorithms, principles, GPU frameworks, and applications of deep learning. Topics include deep feedforward networks, convolutional networks, sequence modeling, transformers, and deep generative models with applications to data analysis, computer vision, and natural language processing. Several programming assignments and a project will practice the application of deep learning techniques to actual problems. The course requires sufficient math and programming background but does not require prior knowledge in machine learning.
Spring 2025: 58 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Shouvik Roy (add to cart)

CS 581: Advanced Artificial Intelligence
Covers advanced topics in artificial intelligence. Topics include search and optimization, simulated annealing, evolutionary algorithms, gradient optimization, constraint optimization, A* search, alpha-beta search, Monte Carlo tree search, probabilistic reasoning, Bayesian networks, hidden Markov models, Kalman filters, decision-making under uncertainty, influence diagrams, Markov decision processes, bandit problems, supervised learning, classification, deep learning, reinforcement learning, knowledge representation, propositional and first-order logic, ontological engineering, AI ethics and safety, privacy, bias and fairness in machine learning, and explainable AI.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jacek Dzikowski ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 104 (add to cart)

CS 584: Machine Learning
Introduce fundamental problems in machine learning. Provide understanding of techniques, mathematical concepts, and algorithms used in machine learning. Provide understanding of the limitations of various machine learning algorithms and the way to evaluate performance of learning algorithms. Topics include introduction, regression, kernel methods, generative learning, discriminative learning, neural networks, support vector machines, graphical models, unsupervised learning, and dimensionality reduction.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

CS 585: Natural Language Processing
An introduction to the problems of computing with human languages. Parsing. Semantic representations. Text generation. Lexicography. Discourse. Sublanguage studies. Applications to CAI, database interfaces and information retrieval.
Spring 2025: 30 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jacek Dzikowski ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 104 (add to cart)

CS 586: Software Systems Architectures
This course covers the state-of-the-art in architectural design of complex software systems. The course considers commonly-used software system architectures, techniques for designing and implementing these architectures, models and notations for characterizing and reasoning about architectures, and case studies of actual software system architectures.
Spring 2025: 49 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Bogdan Korel ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Perlstein Hall 131 (add to cart)

CS 587: Software Project Management
Concepts of software product and process quality. Role of TQM in software project management. Use of metrics, feasibility studies, cost and effort estimates. Discussion of project planning and scheduling. The project team and leadership issues. The Capability Maturity Model: basic tenets and application of process evaluation.
Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Atef Bader ~ F from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 104 (add to cart)

CS 591: Research and Thesis of Masters Degree
Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 19 sections)

CS 594: Research Problems
Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Independent Study/Research) ~ Shlomo Argamon (add to cart)

CS 595: Topics in Computer Science
This course will treat a specific topic, varying from semester to semester, in which there is a particular student or staff interest. May be taken more than once.
Spring 2025: 46 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sanjiv Kapoor ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

CS 597: Reading and Special Problems
May be taken more than once. (Credit: Variable) Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 21 sections)

CS 691: Research and Thesis Ph.D.
Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 14 sections)

CS 695: Doctoral Seminar
Doctoral seminar.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Andre Bauer ~ W from 12:45 PM to 1:45 PM in Stuart Building 212 (add to cart)

CS 727: Relational Database Implementation and Application
Accessing SQL from traditional programming languages. Functions, procedures, and triggers. Transactions and concurrency models. Database storage and indexing.
Spring 2025: 73 seats avail. | Accelerated Course (Class) ~ Gerald Balekaki (add to cart)

CSP 200: Practical Computing: Tools and Techniques
This course offers students a hands-on introduction to practical tools, platforms, and workflows commonly used in both the classroom and industry.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Lee ~ WF from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 238 (add to cart)

CSP 495: Applications in Computer Science
This course will address specific applications of computer science, varying from semester to semester, in which there is a particular industry or staff interest.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Donald DeLoach ~ F from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 107-1 (add to cart)

CSP 554: Big Data Technologies
Big data is the area of informatics focusing on data sets whose size is beyond the ability of typical database and other software tools to capture, store, analyze, and manage. This course provides a rapid immersion into the area of big data and the technologies that have recently appeared to manage it. Students may not receive credit for both CS 554 and CSP 554.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

CSP 571: Data Preparation and Analysis
Surveys industrial and scientific applications of data analytics with case studies including exploration of ethical issues via case studies. Students will work with a variety of real world data sets and learn how to prepare data sets for analysis by cleaning and reformatting. We will also cover a variety of data exploration techniques including summary statistics and visualization methods.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jawahar Panchal ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 104 (add to cart)

CSP 572: Data Science Practicum
Students will work in small groups to solve real-world data analysis problems for actual scientific or industrial clients. Innovation and clarity of presentation will be key elements of evaluation. Students will also have an option to fulfill course requirements through a data analytics internship with an industry partner.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Practicum (Class) ~ Yong Zheng ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in TBA (add to cart)

CSP 586: Software Modeling Development with UML
Students will obtain a significant exposure to the UML technology. This will include exposure to modeling, model-driven development, executable models, and round-trip engineering.
Spring 2025: 36 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Atef Bader ~ S from 9 AM to 11:40 AM in Stuart Building 104 (add to cart)

CSP 588: User-Centered Design for Software Engineers
This course will present to students a system design methodology rooted in making the user part of the process. The course will begin by introducing the concepts of user-centered design, and will then take the students through the various aspects of systems design, including technical approaches and user-experience implications. The course will equip students with tools and methods for better understanding the needs of users and will teach them to translate these requirements into an effective design as measured by user situation awareness.
Spring 2025: 33 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Dennis Hood ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Perlstein Hall 131 (add to cart)

DS 261: Ethics and Privacy in Data Science
This course introduces the critical concepts and skills of ethics and privacy in data science, as well as hands-on implementation of important algorithms. It will cover important concepts of bias and privacy, and the computational strategies to ensure fairness and privacy in a variety of emerging data science applications. The course provided hands-on experience in collecting, analyzing, and modeling data for tackling ethical issues.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Robert Ellis ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 122 (add to cart)

DS 480: Data Science Projects
In this capstone course, students will work in teams to explore a data-rich real-world issue from business, industry, government, or scientific research. Teams will identify a problem, then model, solve, and communicate their solution using data science techniques such as data mining, regression, machine learning, hypothesis testing, and data visualization. Emphasis will be placed on team building, planning, reflection and course correction, and reporting in written and presentation form. Ethics and privacy implications will be identified and explored, so that each team conducts the modeling and reporting process appropriately.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Robert Ellis ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 107-1 (add to cart)

ECE 211: Circuit Analysis I
Ohm's Law, Kirchhoff's Laws, and network element voltage-current relations. Application of mesh and nodal analysis to circuits. Dependent sources, operational amplifier circuits, superposition, Thevenin's and Norton's Theorems, maximum power transfer theorem. Transient circuit analysis for RC, RL, and RLC circuits. Introduction to Laplace Transforms. Laboratory experiments include analog and digital circuits; familiarization with test and measurement equipment; combinational digital circuits; familiarization with latches, flip-flops, and shift registers; operational amplifiers; transient effects in first-order and second-order analog circuits; PSpice software applications. Concurrent registration in MATH 252 and ECE 218.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohammad Hassan Modir Shanechi ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 213: Circuit Analysis II
Sinusoidal excitation and phasors. AC steady-state circuit analysis using phasors. Complex frequency, network functions, pole-zero analysis, frequency response, and resonance. Two-port networks, transformers, mutual inductance, AC steady-state power, RMS values, introduction to three-phase systems and Fourier series. Design-oriented experiments include counters, finite state machines, sequential logic design, impedances in AC steady-state, resonant circuits, two-port networks, and filters. A final project incorporating concepts from analog and digital circuit design will be required. Prerequisites: ECE 211 with a grade C or better.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohammad Hassan Modir Shanechi ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

ECE 216: Circuit Analysis II
Sinusoidal excitation and phasors. AC steady-state circuit analysis using phasors. Complex frequency, network functions, pole-zero analysis, frequency response, and resonance. Two-port networks, transformers, mutual inductance, AC steady-state power, RMS values, introduction to three-phase systems and Fourier series. Note: ECE 216 is for non-ECE majors.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohammad Hassan Modir Shanechi ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

ECE 218: Digital Systems
Boolean algebra, switching devices, discrete and integrated digital circuits, analysis and design of combinational logic circuits. Karnaugh maps and minimization techniques. Counters and registers. Analysis and design of sequential circuits. Digital logic design using FPGA and VHDL programming.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Suresh Borkar ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 117 (add to cart)

ECE 222: Introduction to Cybersecurity Engineering
Students will receive an introductory overview of major issues related to offensive and defensive cybersecurity. Key topics for this course include ethical hacking tools, penetration testing basics, exploit development, intrusion detection, cyber forensics, and cybersecurity law and regulations. Course projects will provide a hands-on experience using open-source tools and software to support concepts taught during the lecture. Students need to have basic programming skills.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ David Arnold, Jafar Saniie ~ MW from 6:25 PM to 7:40 PM in TBA (add to cart)

ECE 242: Digital Computers and Computing
Basic concepts in computer architecture, organization, and programming, including: integer and floating point number representations, memory organization, computer processor operation (the fetch/execute cycle), and computer instruction sets. Programming in machine language and assembly language with an emphasis on practical problems. Brief survey of different computer architectures.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Won Jae Yi ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 117 (add to cart)

ECE 307: Electrodynamics
Analysis of circuits using distributed network elements. Response of transmission lines to transient signals. AC steady-state analysis of lossless and lossy lines. The Smith Chart as an analysis and design tool. Impedance matching methods. Vector analysis applied to static and time-varying electric and magnetic fields. Coulomb's Law, electric field intensity, flux density and Gauss's Law. Energy and potential. Biot-Savart and Ampere's Law. Maxwell's equations with applications including uniform-plane wave propagation.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Mohammad Hassan Modir Shanechi (add to cart)

ECE 308: Signals and Systems
Time and frequency domain representation of continuous and discrete time signals. Introduction to sampling and sampling theorem. Time and frequency domain analysis of continuous and discrete linear systems. Fourier series convolution, transfer functions. Fourier transforms, Laplace transforms, and Z-transforms.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Eli Hwang ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 311: Engineering Electronics
Physics of semiconductor devices. Diode operation and circuit applications. Regulated power supplies. Bipolar and field-effect transistor operating principles. Biasing techniques and stabilization. Linear equivalent circuit analysis of bipolar and field-effect transistor amplifiers. Laboratory experiments reinforce concepts.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Suresh Borkar ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

ECE 319: Fundamentals of Power Engineering
Principles of electromechanical energy conversion. Fundamentals of the operations of transformers, synchronous machines, induction machines, and fractional horsepower machines. Introduction to power network models and per-unit calculations. Gauss-Seidel load flow. Lossless economic dispatch. Symmetrical three-phase faults. Laboratory considers operation, analysis, and performance of motors and generators. The laboratory experiments also involve use of PC-based interactive graphical software for load flow, economic dispatch, and fault analysis.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Alexander Flueck ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in IIT Tower 16F4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 406: Wireless Communications Systems
The course addresses the fundamentals of wireless communications and provides an overview of existing and emerging wireless communications networks. It covers radio propagation and fading models, fundamentals of cellular communications, multiple access technologies, and various wireless networks including past and future generation networks. Simulation of wireless systems under different channel environments will be an integral part of this course.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Chi Zhou ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 225 (add to cart)

ECE 407: Introduction to Computer Networks with Laboratory
Emphasis on the physical, data link, and medium access layers of the OSI architecture. Different general techniques for networking tasks, such as error control, flow control, multiplexing, switching, routing, signaling, congestion control, traffic control, scheduling will be covered along with their experimentation and implementation in a laboratory. Credit given for ECE 407 or ECE 408, not both.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Lin Cai ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 258 (add to cart)

ECE 408: Introduction to Computer Networks
Emphasis on the physical, data link and medium access layers of the OSI architecture. Different general techniques for networking tasks, such as error control, flow control, multiplexing, switching, routing, signaling, congestion control, traffic control, scheduling will be covered. Credit given for ECE 407 or ECE 408, not both.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Lin Cai ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 258 (add to cart)

ECE 412: Hybrid Electric Vehicle Drives
Fundamentals of electric motor drives are studied. Applications of semiconductor switching circuits to adjustable speed drives, robotic, and traction are explored. Selection of motor drives, calculating the ratings, speed control, position control, starting, and braking are also covered. Simulation mini-projects and lab experiments are based on the lectures given.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Fei Shang ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 420: Analytical Methods for Power System Economics and Cybersecurity
Analytical Methods for the Economic operation of power systems with consideration of transmission losses. Analytical methods for the optimal scheduling of power generation, including real power and reactive power. Analytical methods for the estimation of power system state. Analytical methods for the modeling of smart grid cybersecurity.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohammad Hassan Modir Shanechi ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 429: Introduction to VLSI Design
Processing, fabrication, and design of Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) circuits. MOS transistor theory, VLSI processing, circuit layout, layout design rules, layout analysis, and performance estimation. The use of computer aided design (CAD) tools for layout design, system design in VLSI, and application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). In the laboratory, students create, analyze, and simulate a number of circuit layouts as design projects, culminating in a term design project.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kyuwon Choi ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 238 (add to cart)

ECE 430: Fundamentals of Semiconductor Devices
The goals of this course are to give the student an understanding of the physical and operational principles behind important electronic devices such as transistors and solar cells. Semiconductor electron and hole concentrations, carrier transport, and carrier generation and recombination are discussed. P-N junction operation and its application to diodes, solar cells, and LEDs are developed. The field-effect transistor (FET) and bipolar junction transistor (BJT) are then discussed and their terminal operation developed. Application of transistors to bipolar and CMOS analog and digital circuits is introduced.
Spring 2025: 19 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Thomas Wong, Erdal Oruklu ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 438: Control Systems
Signal-flow graphs and block diagrams. Types of feedback control. Steady-state tracking error. Stability and Routh Hurwitz criterion. Transient response and time domain design via root locus methods. Frequency domain analysis and design using Bode and Nyquist methods. Introduction to state variable descriptions.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Dusan Veselinovic ~ R from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

ECE 441: Smart and Connected Embedded System Design
This is a culminating major design experience course that involves smart and connected system applications including Internet of Things, healthcare system, artificial intelligence and machine vision, wireless sensor network, smart security system, smart city, smart power grid, smart power electronic devices, smart transportation, factory automation, agriculture automation, and home automation. Smart and connected system entails human machine interface, embedded computing, interrupt/exception handling, fault detection and recovery, standard and special peripheral interfacing to sensors and actuators, hardware and software codesign for data acquisition, encryption/decryption for secure system, information processing, data storage, and network communication protocols. The design project incorporates engineering standards and multiple constraints, building on knowledge and skills acquired from 100 to 300 level ECE coursework.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jafar Saniie ~ F from 2:30 PM to 4:30 PM in TBA (add to cart)

ECE 444: Computer Network Security
This course studies computer network security by covering topics such as fundamental cryptographic algorithms; protocol design and analysis
for secure communications over Internet; efficient key management infrastructure; strong password protection; attack and security models;
practical security protocols in application layer, transport layer, network layer, and link layer. Students registering for ECE 543 are required to complete additional projects in advanced areas.
Spring 2025: 19 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yu Cheng ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

ECE 448: Application Software Design
The course provides introduction to languages and environments for application software development utilizing Software as a Service (SaaS) for electrical and computer engineers. Languages addressed include Java, Python, SQL, and JavaScript. Key topics covered include systems development life cycle, client-server architectures, database integration, RESTful service, and data visualization. Programming projects will include the development of a data-rich web application with server back-end that connects mobile devices and Internet of Things using Agile software engineering practices.
Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Won Jae Yi ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Wishnick Hall 113 (add to cart)

ECE 460: Introduction to Signals and Systems for Advanced Studies
This course provides an introduction to Signals and Systems and illustrates the concepts using representative examples and applications. Basic concepts, including continuous-time and discrete-time signals and their properties, are covered. Properties and applications of continuous-time and discrete-time convolution, Fourier series, Fourier transform, Discrete Fourier transform, Laplace transform, and Z-transform are also covered. A significant number of examples are used to illustrate the basic concepts. This course is intended to provide a strong foundation for students who are entering graduate programs in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) without an undergraduate degree in ECE. This course is not intended for credits as part of the degree programs at Illinois Tech.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohammad Hassan Modir Shanechi (add to cart)

ECE 461: Introduction to Probability and Random Variables for Advanced Studies
This course provides introduction to Probability and Random Variables and illustrates the concepts using representative examples and applications. Basic concepts including probability axioms, random and repeated experiments, conditional probability, discrete, continuous, and mixed random variables, moments and characteristic function, and a function of multiple random variables are covered. Significant number of examples are used to illustrate the basic concepts. The intent of this course is to provide strong foundation for students who are entering the graduate programs in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) without an undergraduate degree in ECE. This course is not intended for credits as part of the degree programs at Illinois Tech.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Suresh Borkar (add to cart)

ECE 474: Data Science for Engineers
This course offers an in-depth introduction to data science for real-world engineering applications. It covers foundational topics, including linear algebra and statistics, before transitioning into data preprocessing, visualization, and various machine learning methods. Practical application is emphasized, and students will gain hands-on experience using Python and data science libraries such as NumPy, Pandas, and Matplotlib. The course also includes advanced topics, such as supervised learning, dimension reduction, clustering methods, ensemble methods, and graph methods. The course places a strong emphasis on solutions for engineering problems. Differentiation and assessment between ECE 474 and ECE 574 are provided through the use of projects and case studies. Undergraduate students can only be admitted to ECE 474, while graduate students can only be admitted to ECE 574.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ren Wang ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Hermann Hall 005 (add to cart)

ECE 481: Image Processing
Mathematical foundations of image processing, including two-dimensional discrete Fourier transforms, circulant and block-circulant matrices. Digital representation of images and basic color theory. Fundamentals and applications of image enhancement, restoration, reconstruction, compression, and recognition.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Joohee Kim ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

ECE 497: Special Problems
Design, development, analysis of advanced systems, circuits, or problems as defined by a faculty member of the department. Prerequisite: Consents of academic advisor and instructor.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Ren Wang (add to cart)

ECE 503: 5G Wireless Network: Architecture, New Radio, and Security
The primary distinguishing features of 5th Generation (5G) wireless network are its operations in the mm wave region for effectively handling Machine Type Communication (MTC) for supporting secure and tactile Internet of Things (IoT) and cloud based virtualization and operations. This course covers the details of 5G Cloud based Radio Access Network (C-RAN) and the 5G Core along with how the cloud infrastructure creates a very powerful flexible, secure, and reliable network through virtualization and Network Slicing. Unique features of 5G New Radio (NR) including accessing and duplexing schemes, mm wave operation, and enhanced coverage are discussed. The capabilities of the 5G Core which provides a very flexible usage of network resources are discussed. Projects will entail application to a selected set of use cases in the domains of smart city, smart transportation, and e-Health among others.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Suresh Borkar ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Wishnick Hall 117 (add to cart)

ECE 504: Wireless Communication System Design
Fundamentals of first (1G), second (2G), third (3G), and future generation cellular communication systems. This course covers the transition from 1G to 3G systems. Topics included are speech and channel encoders, interleaving, encryption, equalization, modulation formats, multi-user detection, smart antennas, technologies that are used in these transitions, and future generations of cellular systems. Compatibility aspects of digital cellular systems are discussed along with a review of the standards for the industry. TDMA and CDMA systems are covered in detail.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Chi Zhou ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 225 (add to cart)

ECE 510: Internet of Things and Cyber Physical Systems
To introduce students to the fundamentals of Internet of Things (IoT) and embedded computing. This course covers IoT applications, Wireless protocols, Wearable sensors, Home environment sensors, Behavior detection sensors, Data fusion, processing and analysis, Data communications, Architectural design issues of IoT layers, Security and privacy issues in IoT. Simulation mini-projects and lab experiments are based on the lectures given.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jafar Saniie ~ F from 8:35 AM to 11:15 AM in TBA (add to cart)

ECE 512: Hybrid Electric Vehicle Drives
Fundamentals of electric motor drives are studied. Applications of semiconductor switching circuits to adjustable speed drives, robotic, and traction are explored. Selection of motor drives, calculating the ratings, speed control, position control, starting, and braking are also covered. Simulation mini-projects and lab experiments are based on the lectures given.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Fei Shang ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 523: Fundamentals of Semiconductor Devices
The goals of this course are to give students an understanding of the physical and operational principles behind important electronic devices. Semiconductor electron and hole concentrations, carrier transport, and carrier generation and recombination are discussed. P-N junction operation and its application to diodes, solar cells, and LEDs, are developed. The metal-oxide-semiconductor-field-effect transistor (MOSFET) and bipolar junction transistor (BJT) are then discussed. Applications of transistors in analog and digital circuits are introduced. A term project on a particular device topic is required.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Thomas Wong, Erdal Oruklu ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 525: RF Integrated Circuit Design
Essentials of contemporary RF CMOS integrated circuit analysis and design. Typical RF building blocks in CMOS and BiCMOS technologies, including passive IC components, MOS transistors, RLC tanks, distributed networks, RF amplifiers, voltage reference and biasing circuits, LNA, mixers, power amplifiers, and feedback networks. RF device modeling, Smith chart applications, bandwidth estimation, and stability analysis techniques. RF IC team design projects.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Shaolin Liao ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 152 (add to cart)

ECE 528: Application Software Design
The course provides introduction to languages and environments for application software development utilizing Software as a Service (SaaS) for electrical and computer engineers. Languages addressed include Java, Python, SQL, and JavaScript. Key topics covered include systems development life cycle, client-server architectures, database integration, RESTful service, and data visualization. Programming projects will include the development of a data-rich web application with server back-end that connects mobile devices and Internet of Things using Agile software engineering practices. Differential requirement from ECE 448 is a major final project.
Spring 2025: 34 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Won Jae Yi ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Wishnick Hall 113 (add to cart)

ECE 530: High Performance VLSI IC Systems
Background and insight into some of the most active performance-related research areas of the field is provided. Issues covered include CMOS delay and modeling, timing and signal delay analysis, low power CMOS design and analysis, optimal transistor sizing and buffer tapering, pipelining and register allocation, synchronization and clock distribution, retiming, interconnect delay, dynamic CMOS design techniques, asynchronous vs. synchronous tradeoffs, BiCMOS, low power design, and CMOS power dissipation. Historical, primary, and recent papers in the field of high-performance VLSI digital and analog design and analysis are reviewed and discussed. Each student is expected to participate in the class discussions and also lead the discussion surveying a particular topic.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kyuwon Choi ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

ECE 533: Robust Control
Uncertain systems; multi-variable control design; linear fractional transformation; uncertainties and small-gain theorem; H-infinity norm; algebraic Riccati equations; H-infinity control; optimality and robustness; design considerations; loop shaping; uncertainty and disturbance estimator; applications and examples.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Qingchang Zhong ~ R from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 537: Next Generation Smart Grid
Paradigm change of power systems; Challenges faced during the paradigm change; Concept of synchronized and democratized (SYNDEM) smart grids; SYNDEM architecture for next-generation smart grids; Technical routes to implement SYNDEM smart grids; Enabling technologies: Three generations of virtual synchronous machines (VSM); Integration of renewables/EV/storage systems through VSM; Integration of flexible loads through VSM; Illinois Tech SYNDEM prototype smart grid.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Qingchang Zhong ~ F from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 543: Computer Network Security
This course studies computer network security by covering topics such as fundamental cryptographic algorithms; protocol design and analysis for secure communications over Internet; efficient key management infrastructure; strong password protection; attack and security models; practical security protocols in application layer, transport layer, network layer, and link layer. Students registering for ECE 543 are required to complete additional projects in advanced areas.
Spring 2025: 19 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yu Cheng ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

ECE 545: Modern Internet Technologies
This course covers the key technologies that enable the modern Internet
with a top-down approach. The main topics include multimedia application
and protocols, content distribution networks, edge computing, methodologies
for reliable communications, next generation network architecture based on
software defined networking, resource virtualization, and key techniques for
mobile Internet. This course also deals with the concept of layer based
design, strategy for quality of service provisioning, performance analysis
based on mathematical modeling, and performance evaluation via practical
simulations.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yu Cheng ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

ECE 552: Adjustable Speed Drives
Fundamentals of electric machines, basic principles of variable speed controls, field orientation theory, direct torque control, vector of AC drives, induction machines, switched reluctance and synchronous reluctance motors, permanent magnet brushless DC drives, converter topologies of DC and AC drives, and sensorless operation.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ian Brown ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

ECE 553: Power System Planning
Model development. Interchange capability, interconnections, pooling. Economic generator size and site selection. Concept of reserves, transformers, relays and circuit breakers. Reactive planning AC and DC systems are explored thoroughly from a planning standpoint.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mohammad Shahidehpour ~ F from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 563: Artificial Intelligence in Smart Grid
Introduction to artificial intelligence, artificial neural networks, machine learning, and advanced engineering applications in smart grid, including but not limited to energy forecasting, smart meter data analytics, nonintrusive load monitoring.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Alexander Flueck ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

ECE 565: Computer Vision and Image Processing
Multidimensional sampling and discrete Fourier transform; Image segmentation; Object boundary (edge) detection and description; shape representation and extraction; Matching and recognition; Image registration; Camera geometry and stereo imaging; Morphological processing; Motion detection and compensation; Image modeling and transforms; Inverse problems in image processing (restoration and reconstruction).
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Joohee Kim ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 258 (add to cart)

ECE 569: Digital Signal Processing II
Review of basic DSP theory. Design of digital filters: FIR, IIR, frequency-transformation methods, optimal methods. Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) and Fast Fourier Transform algorithms. Spectral estimation techniques, classical and parametric techniques. AR, MA, ARMA models. Estimation algorithms. Levinson, Durbin-Levinson and Burg's algorithms. eigenanalysis algorithms for spectral estimation.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Geoffrey Williamson ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

ECE 574: Data Science for Engineers
This course offers an in-depth introduction to data science for real-world engineering applications. It covers foundational topics, including linear algebra and statistics, before transitioning into data preprocessing, visualization, and various machine learning methods. Practical application is emphasized, and students will gain hands-on experience using Python and data science libraries such as NumPy, Pandas, and Matplotlib. The course also includes advanced topics, such as supervised learning, dimension reduction, clustering methods, ensemble methods, and graph methods. The course places a strong emphasis on solutions for engineering problems. Differentiation and assessment between ECE 474 and ECE 574 are provided through the use of projects and case studies. Undergraduate students can only be admitted to ECE 474, while graduate students can only be admitted to ECE 574.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ren Wang ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Hermann Hall 005 (add to cart)

ECE 579: Operations and Planning and Distributed Power Grid
The course is divided into four sub-components: current state of the distributed power grid, outlook for the distributed power grid, operation of the distributed power grid, and planning of the distributed power grid. This course will begin by providing an overview of exiting distribution systems and smart grid technologies, such as distribution automation and advanced metering infrastructure (AMI). With the emerging trends in power industry, the course will next focus on trends driving the change and the future components of distributed power grid, including but not limited to distributed generation (DG) and energy storage systems (ESSs). The next part of the course will be focused on the operation and control strategies for distributed power grid systems, including operational constraints, voltage and var control (VVC), and control of DERs and Smart Inverters. The final topic area for the course will be planning of distributed power grid with DERs, including lectures on DER impacts and their assessments, hosting capacity, and microgrid operations.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Shay Bahramirad ~ S from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 586: Hardware Security and Advanced Computer Architectures
This course focuses on designing computers and embedded computing devices from security and threat-mitigation perspectives. Advanced architecture topics such as instruction level parallelism, multi-threading and multi-instruction, multi-data stream processing are presented. Design for testability, hardware attacks, threat modeling and countermeasures against attacks are covered for the major entities for a computer system; including CPU, memory, and I/O. Case studies on recent examples of hardware security issues are discussed.
* Students registering for this course should have a prior knowledge of Computer Organization and Design or equivalent course and be familiar with hardware description languages such as Verilog or VHDL.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Erdal Oruklu ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

ECE 587: Hardware/Software Codesign
Computer-aided techniques for the joint design of hardware and software: specification, analysis, simulation and synthesis. Hardware/software partitioning, distributed system cosynthesis, application-specific instruction set design, interface cosynthesis, timing analysis for real-time systems.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jia Wang ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ECE 591: Research and Thesis for Masters Degree

Spring 2025: Independent Study/Research (show all 25 sections)

ECE 594: Special Projects
Special projects.
Spring 2025: Independent Study/Research (show all 12 sections)

ECE 597: Special Problems

Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Ren Wang (add to cart)

ECE 691: Research and Thesis for Ph.D.

Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Ren Wang (add to cart)

ECE 693: Graduate Research Seminar
Seminar course for graduate students.
Spring 2025: 57 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Jafar Saniie ~ F from 12:50 PM to 1:40 PM in Siegel Hall 118 (add to cart)

ECON 152: Macroeconomics
This course exposes students to the economic framework for understanding global and national macroeconomic events. Students will learn the aggregate demand-aggregate supply (AD-AS) model and its related components to understand and evaluate monetary and fiscal policy. The course will provide an introduction to national income theories and models describing economic fluctuations and growth, money and banking, and international economics. In addition, the course will explore macroeconomic concepts including inflation, unemployment, trade, and economic growth.
Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Wenchen Wang ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Perlstein Hall 108 (add to cart)

ECON 211: Introduction to Economics
The determination of output, employment and the rate of inflation. Topics include a broad-based discussion of the controversies in macro-economics, the appropriate use of fiscal and monetary policy, the effects of a budget deficit, determination of the rate of exchange, and the trade deficit. Offered in fall and spring. ECON 211 should not be taken by business majors, economics majors or economics minors.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Anindita Ghosh ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

ECON 312: Intermediate Macroeconomics
This course examines the functioning of the aggregate economy, beginning from basic aggregate data measurement and concepts. Given a review of macroeconomic definitions, the course moves to examining the classical macro equilibrium for an open economy. The course then takes both a short and a long-term view of the economy, and aims to help students understand how modern macroeconomics can shed light on facts such as business cycles, economic growth, unemployment, and money. The course then evaluates the scope for policy interventions to improve macroeconomic performance.
Spring 2025: 19 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Wenchen Wang ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 121 (add to cart)

ECON 382: Business Economics
Course Goal: To introduce fundamental topics in microeconomic analysis and industrial organization, and the analytical tools used to study them; to provide economic intuition and to strengthen understanding of a variety of market conditions and market forces. • Why are markets commonly believed to be the best way of allocating resources and organizing economic activity? •Why do governments intervene in markets and regulate them in fundamental ways?
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Xiaoyun Cao ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Hermann Hall 005 (add to cart)

ECON 423: Economics of Capital Investments
This course explores the valuation of proposed capital investments in both the public and private sectors. Students will learn how to determine the relevant cash flows associated with a proposed capital investment. Then, they will subject these cash flows to analysis by three major decision models that incorporate time value of the following money concepts: Net Present Value; Equivalent Uniform Benefit/Cost; and Internal Rate of Return. Students will also learn how to incorporate income taxes, inflation, risk, and capital rationing in the analysis of a project. (Business students may take ECON 423 in place of BUS 351 with their advisor's permission.)
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Twombly ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

EG 497: Special Problems
Special problems. Requires junior standing.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Mohammad Heidarinejad (add to cart)

EMGT 406: Entrepreneurship and Intellectual Property Management
This course intends to introduce and develop a number of diversified professional skills necessary for success in an engineering research and development environment. Selected topics in the areas of technology entrepreneurship, opportunity assessment, creativity and innovation, project management, management of organizational change, and entrepreneurial leadership are discussed. Significant effort is placed on understanding and managing intellectual property.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Robert Anderson ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 225 (add to cart)

EMGT 470: Project Management
Introduction and practice of project form of organization for accomplishing tasks in engineering firms. Develops the attributes required of a project manager. Introduction to project management form most appropriate for engineering tasks, evaluating projects for funding, establishing planning, budgeting, and initiation process, extensive analysis of scheduling techniques, resource allocation during scheduling, monitoring project progress, the project control cycle, avoiding scope creep, auditing projects and completion of the project. The case study method is used throughout the class to provide students experiential-learning opportunities. This class cannot be substituted for courses in the construction management major in CAEE.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Deborah Steimel-Clair ~ T from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

EMGT 523: Statistical Analysis of Engineering Data
Descriptive statistics and graphs, probability distribution, random sampling, independence, significance tests, design of experiments, regression, time series analysis, statistical process control, and introduction to multivariate analysis.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Desch ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

ENVE 402: Introduction to Environmental Engineering and Sustainable Design
This course provides an overview of how environmental engineers integrate biological, chemical, and physical sciences with engineering design methods to develop solutions to environmental problems. Topics include air pollution, water pollution, solid waste management, fate and transport of contaminants, pollution prevention, environmental regulation, risk assessment, climate science, and sustainability assessment. Focuses on applications and actual design practice.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Boyoung Jeong ~ T from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Alumni Memorial Hall 222 (add to cart)

ENVE 404: Water and Wastewater Engineering
Water quality and water supply issues make up this course including the physical, chemical, and biological processes involved in water treatment. Process design, operations, and management are also considered.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Svetlana Taylor ~ R from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 121 (add to cart)

ENVE 423: Geoenvironmental Engineering
This course provides students with a comprehensive understanding of global geoenvironmental challenges. Subject matter includes interactions between soils, rocks, groundwater, and contaminants; issues related to hazardous and non-hazardous waste management; contaminated site remediation; and the principles of sustainable development. Essential topics include (1) geoenvironmental problems and the need for geoenvironmental engineering, (2) the fundamental background needed to understand and address geoenvironmental problems, (3) management of wastes through engineered landfills and impoundments, (4) characterizing, assessing, and remediating contaminated sites, (5) beneficial use of waste and recycled materials, and (6) incorporating sustainability in waste management and pollution control. By the end of the course, students will be equipped with the fundamental knowledge and practical skills to address and resolve a range of geoenvironmental issues.
Spring 2025: 19 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Boyoung Jeong ~ W from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Alumni Memorial Hall 222 (add to cart)

ENVE 495: Environmental Capstone Design
This is a project-based course requiring the integration of multiple disciplines to satisfy client requirements for a real environmental engineering design project. By completing this course, students are expected to demonstrate that they can work in multidisciplinary teams to solve an environmental problem; design an environmental engineering system that includes considerations of risk, uncertainty, sustainability, life-cycle principles, and environmental impacts; and communicate an environmental design in written reports, drawings, and oral presentations.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Karoline Qasem ~ T from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 107-3 (add to cart)

ENVE 497: Special Project
Special design project under individual supervision of instructor. Consent of instructor is required.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ David Lampert (add to cart)

ENVE 523: Geoenvironmental Engineering
This course provides students with a comprehensive understanding of global geoenvironmental challenges. Subject matter includes interactions between soils, rocks, groundwater, and contaminants; issues related to hazardous and non-hazardous waste management; contaminated site remediation; and the principles of sustainable development. Essential topics include (1) geoenvironmental problems and the need for geoenvironmental engineering, (2) the fundamental background needed to understand and address geoenvironmental problems, (3) management of wastes through engineered landfills and impoundments, (4) characterizing, assessing, and remediating contaminated sites, (5) beneficial use of waste and recycled materials, and (6) incorporating sustainability in waste management and pollution control. By the end of the course, students will be equipped with the fundamental knowledge and practical skills to address and resolve a range of geoenvironmental issues.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Boyoung Jeong ~ W from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Alumni Memorial Hall 222 (add to cart)

ENVE 591: Research and Thesis M.S.
Graduate research.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ David Lampert (add to cart)

ENVE 597: Special Problems
Independent study and project. (Variable credit)
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ David Lampert (add to cart)

ENVE 691: Research and Thesis Ph.D.
Graduate research.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ David Lampert (add to cart)

EXCH 301: Exchange Program

Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ (add to cart)

EXCH 501: Exchange Program

Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ (add to cart)

FDSN 201: Nutrition and Wellness
Introduction to the basic principles of nutrition and the relationship of the human diet to health. Overview of the nutrition profession, the biological uses of nutrients, and tools for dietary planning and assessment in various settings. Examination of specific issues such as weight management, sports nutrition, food safety, the diet-disease relationship, and global nutrition. Analysis of special nutritional requirements and needs during the life cycle.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Kelly Roehl, Britt Burton-Freeman (add to cart)

FDSN 301: Exploring Food Science & Tech
In this course students will explore the wide array of disciplines in which engineering, biological, and physical sciences are used to study and produce food products. An overview of the relationship between food nutrition, chemistry, microbiology, safety, processing, engineering, sensory, and product development will be discussed. The food science and technology industry will be studied to understand food processing, food safety, quality and packaging of specific categories of foods. The course also provides a brief introduction to different career opportunities within the food and technology industry.
Spring 2025: 35 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Wei Zhang ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 225 (add to cart)

FDSN 310: Food Chemistry with Lab
The course applies basic scientific principles to food systems and practical applications.
Chemical/biochemical reactions of carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and other constituents in fresh and
processed foods are discussed with respect to food quality. Reaction conditions and processes that
affect color, flavor, aroma, texture, nutrition, and safety of food are emphasized. Other topics include activation and control of enzymatic reactions in fruits and vegetables; consequences of water migration on food quality; gelatinization‐retrogradation in starch‐based foods (e.g., pudding, bread, and rice); initiation and control of non‐enzymatic browning (e.g.,pretzels, meat); food emulsions (e.g., salad dressings, commutated meats products), crystal structures in foods and general properties of food materials. The interaction of food components with packaging and the environment will be examined.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Amandeep Sandhu ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 116 (add to cart)

FDSN 401: Nutrition, Metabolism, and Health
Study of chemical structures, types, and metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids, and proteins. Discussion of the biological and chemical roles of vitamins and minerals. Application and integration of metabolic knowledge with health promotion and chronic disease.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Indika Edirisinghe ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

FDSN 408: Food Product Development
Students in this class will learn how to do the following: identify the key steps in the food product development process and stage gate concepts; develop a formulation approach with ability to effectively understand how to work well with vendors, handle labeling regulations, food safety, and consumer acceptability requirements; create a product unit costing with trade-offs and contingencies for market launch; identify key performance requirements for product shelf life testing and packaging specifications; evaluate product quality and safety with traditional and state of the art assessment tools; how to conduct consumer tests, plant trials, and introduce new products and processes into the manufacturing operation and contingency planning; and develop a strategy to monitor and improve product performance.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Valeria Acquarone, Britt Burton-Freeman ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

FDSN 412: Preservation Processing
This course will cover the fundamental aspects of food preservation, various methods used in food preservation, and engineering calculations related to preservation processing. Perishability of different categories of food products, shelf life, microbial growth and spoilage in foods; Principles of mass and energy balance, heat transfer, and fluid flow; preservation by heat (canning, blanching, pasteurization); preservation by additives (chemical preservatives, antimicrobials, bio preservatives), preservation by pH (addition of acids, fermentation), novel methods of food preservation; preservation by temperature reduction (freezing, refrigeration); thermal process engineering calculations; preservation by water activity (dehydration, drying, evaporation, the addition of salt or sugar); preservation by other conventional methods (smoking, pickling, etc.); food packaging as a preservation aid; preservation by novel food processing technologies; special considerations for the preservation of various food products; validation of preservation.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kathiravan Krishnamurthy ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

FDSN 494: Special Projects
Advanced projects in food processing and packaging, food microbiology and safety, food chemistry, and nutrition.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Independent Study/Research) ~ Britt Burton-Freeman (add to cart)

FDSN 504: Food Biotechnology
Introduction of biotechnology in the food industry including genetic engineering of microorganisms. Fundamentals of microbial genomics and proteomics. Practice of a variety of software and bioinformatics tools including database search, sequence alignment, phylogenetic and cluster analyses, gene production, genomic map construction, and structural and functional prediction of proteins. Applications of DNA fingerprinting techniques in food safety and public health.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Wei Zhang ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in TBA (add to cart)

FDSN 506: Food Microbiology Laboratory
Introductory Microbiology. Basic microbiological techniques and safe laboratory practices. Introductory Food Microbiology. Isolation pathogenic bacteria. Spoilage microorganisms. Fermentation. Environmental Monitoring. Rapid Identification tests. Sporeformers.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Alvin Lee ~ F from 9 AM to 12 PM in TBA (add to cart)

FDSN 507: Food Analysis
Techniques for analyzing food toxins, food constituents of public health concern, intentional and unintentional food additives, modern separation and analytic techniques.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Amandeep Sandhu ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 129 (add to cart)

FDSN 508: Food Product Development
Students in this class will learn how to do the following: identify the key steps in the food product development process and stage gate concepts; develop a formulation approach with ability to effectively understand how to work well with vendors, handle labeling regulations, food safety, and consumer acceptability requirements; create a product unit costing with trade-offs and contingencies for market launch; identify key performance requirements for product shelf life testing and packaging specifications; evaluate product quality and safety with traditional and state of the art assessment tools; how to conduct consumer tests, plant trials, and introduce new products and processes into the manufacturing operation and contingency planning; and develop a strategy to monitor and improve product performance.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Valeria Acquarone, Britt Burton-Freeman ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

FDSN 522: Advanced Food Process Engineering
Process calculations for food processing methods such as canning, aseptic processing, ohmic heating, microwave processing and pulsed energy processing. Extrusion techniques in food processing. Discussion of new food processing techniques and safety implications.
Spring 2025: 21 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kathiravan Krishnamurthy ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Hermann Hall 005 (add to cart)

FDSN 531: HACCP Planning and Implementation
Examination of the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) principles; microbiological and process overviews; generic HACCP models, Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP); monitoring of critical control points (CCPs), process control and implementation.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jason Wan ~ F from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 104 (add to cart)

FDSN 541: Principles of Food Packaging
Type and application of packaging materials. Migration theories and food package interaction, package testing to ensure safety, and recycling of package materials.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kathiravan Krishnamurthy ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

FDSN 591: Research and Thesis
Research and Thesis for Master of Science Degree students.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Amandeep Sandhu (add to cart)

FDSN 593: Seminars in Food Science and Nutrition
Students attend seminars offered during the semester. Each student is also required to give a 30-minute presentation on a topic of his/her interest or a research project on which she/he has worked.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Britt Burton-Freeman ~ R from 12:45 PM to 1:45 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

FDSN 594: Special Projects
Advanced projects in food processing and packaging, food microbiology and safety, food chemistry, and nutrition.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Amandeep Sandhu (add to cart)

FDSN 597: Special Problems
Independent study of advanced topics in food science and nutrition including food processing and packaging, food microbiology and safety, food chemistry, and nutrition.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Indika Edirisinghe (add to cart)

FDSN 691: Research and Thesis
Research and Thesis for Ph.D. Food Science Candidates.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Jason Wan (add to cart)

FDSN 695: Food Science and Nutrition Research Seminar
This course is designed for Ph.D. students to attend research seminars that are presented by invited speakers from academia, food industry and federal government agencies to broaden their understandings and knowledge of various scientific topics and original research in Food Science and Nutrition. This course is mandatory for all Ph.D. students enrolled in the FDSN program. A minimum of 2 credits or 2 semesters of attendance is required for each student. It does not deal with specific techniques per se, but rather with the assumptions and the logic underlying food science and nutrition research. Students will become acquainted with a variety of approaches to research design from the speakers which, in turn, will help to develop their own research projects. A written report that summarizes the major impacts and findings of all presentations is due at the end of the semester.
Spring 2025: 50 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Britt Burton-Freeman ~ R from 12:45 PM to 1:45 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

GCS 100: Continuation of Graduate Studies, Administrative
This course is open by permit only to graduate students who have non-course and non-thesis requirements to fulfill in the semester of graduation. Permits are entered by Graduate Academic Affairs.
Spring 2025: 31 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Independent Study/Research) ~ Faculty TBA (add to cart)

GCS 600: Graduate Continuation Studies

Spring 2025: 44 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Independent Study/Research) ~ Faculty TBA (add to cart)

GLS 180: General Learning Strategies I
This course teaches a range of strategies to improve student learning including strategies for understanding and remembering what you read, effective note taking and test taking strategies, time and stress management strategies, strategies to decrease procrastination and increase personal motivation, health lifestyle habits, and self advocacy.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Taylor Frye-Vargas ~ T from 9 AM to 9:50 AM in Stuart Building 107 (add to cart)

GLS 181: General Learning Strategies II
This course, based on our highly successful academic coaching model, is designed to create a pathway for students to excel in their studies in general and their early-stage college mathematics, which is a cornerstone for success in STEM degrees. Individualized Adaptive Learning (IAL; also known by the historical, but now less accurate, course series name, General Learning Strategies, GLS) 181 is a mentorship program that pairs you with MATH Peer Mentors. These mentors are trained in Empowerment, Leadership, and Mentorship (ELM) principles, are equipped with adaptive learning strategies, and have successfully navigated the challenges of college algebra, calculus, and beyond. Students who have completed their GLS courses have historically improved their overall semester GPA by more than a letter grade on average and continue to improve their academic performance.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Erin Thomas (add to cart)

GLS 182: Academic Coaching
Student meets once per week with an academic coach to discuss any difficulties the student is having with his or her courses and to coach the student on effective study strategies.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Kieron Swain (add to cart)

HIST 337: The American Century: 1898-1975
Traces how America attained economic and military power and what it did with that power at home and abroad. Discusses the World Wars, the Great Depression, the limits of the "welfare state," the movement for Black equality, and the transformations of the 1960's.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Keith Green ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Alumni Memorial Hall 222 (add to cart)

HIST 352: History of Chicago
Basic institutions of the contemporary city studied in their historical context, using Chicago as a case study. Political machines, social and political reform traditions, planning agencies, ethnic neighborhoods, organized crime and many other urban institutions.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Mindy Pugh (add to cart)

HIST 354: Chicago LGBTQ history
Development of LGBTQ narratives, cultures and organizations within Chicago with reference to their historical context. Students will learn not only about leaders and significant developments within Chicago LGBTQ history but also learn about local, national, and international developments which aided in formation and development of sexual orientations and gender identities.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mindy Pugh ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Siegel Hall 202 (add to cart)

HIST 373: History of Video Games
This course introduces students to the history of video gaming while providing instruction in scholarly practice with an emphasis on research and writing. Topics include the technical and cultural history of the video games, academic writing, and humanities research methods.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

HIST 380: Topics in History
An investigation into a topic of current or enduring interest in history, which will be announced by the instructor when the course is scheduled.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Keith Green ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Siegel Hall 202 (add to cart)

HIST 491: Independent Reading and Research
Consent of department. For advanced students.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Keith Green (add to cart)

HIST 580: Topics in History
A course for graduate students on a topic in history.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Carly Kocurek ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

HUM 200: Topics in Humanities
One-time or initial versions of course topics equivalent to HUM 202, 204, 206, and 208. Topics will introduce students to the humanities at IIT and to provide intensive instruction in writing.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 14 sections)

HUM 372: Interactive Storytelling
Interactive Storytelling is an upper-level communication course that examines methods and forms of interactive storytelling while engaging students in hands-on production projects.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Carly Kocurek ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

HUM 601: Teaching Assistant Seminar
Required of all teaching assistants at IIT, this course introduces students to classroom and course management issues, strategies, and ethics. In addition, students give classroom-lecture style presentations using basic instructional visual aids.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Tracey McGee ~ MW from 12:50 PM to 1:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

IDN 466: Advanced Reading and Writing in Design II
This course will build on previously learned skills to teach international students language related to the professional practice of design. Students will learn to read design-related texts more critically by uncovering a writer's assumptions and evaluating an article's validity. Students will also develop different aspects of writing for design, including research and synthesis in response and essay writing, among others. Placement in this course is based on exam results and/or successful completion of IDN 461 Advanced Reading and Writing for Design I
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Deborah Silver ~ F from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 225 (add to cart)

IDN 467: Advanced Listening and Presentation in Design II
This course will teach advanced communication strategies necessary for design students to interact in academic and professional contexts. Students will develop their critical listening and discussion skills with extended discourse on design topics. Students will also develop greater fluency, accuracy, and clarity through a semester-length project. This course will enable students to build confidence in presentation, discussion, and project work. Placement in this course is based on placement exam results and/or the successful completion of IDN 462 Advanced listening and Presentation in Design I
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Brian Casario ~ W from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 225 (add to cart)

IDN 481: Introduction to Design Practice
An accelerated course in design history, theory, and the makeup of contemporary professional practice.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicholas Paredes ~ T from 6 PM to 9 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 227 (add to cart)

IDN 501: Communication Systems
Explores the techniques of planning and designing communications systems in print, web, and three-dimensional exhibition form from concept generation to visualization. Relevant perceptual, cognitive, and systems principles are investigated and prototyped.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Studio (Class) ~ Jessica Meharry, Ruth Schmidt ~ T from 9 AM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 211W (add to cart)

IDN 503: Embodied Design
At the end of this course, students should be able to explore, create, and communicate design directions for simple products and environments taking into account design principles, human factors, technology, and business issues.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Studio (Class) ~ Martin Thaler ~ F from 9 AM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 226 (add to cart)

IDN 508: Principles and Methods of User Research
This course is a survey of the research methods commonly used in design research and gives an overview of distinctions between primary and secondary research, quantitative and qualitative research, and online and in-person research in order to prepare students for research-intensive projects.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Studio (Class) ~ Kim Erwin ~ T from 2 PM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 226 (add to cart)

IDN 519: Evidence-based Design
Introduction to the use of analytics measure the success of design solutions
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Oren ~ M from 6 PM to 9 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 227 (add to cart)

IDN 530: Innovation Frontiers
Introduces students to the broad context of strategic planning. It includes a discussion of the general forces acting upon an organization (competition, technological developments, channels of information, and product distribution) and ways to understand the people who use design.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Workshop (Class) ~ Lawrence Keeley, Daniel Chichester ~ T from 6 PM to 9 PM in TBA (add to cart)

IDN 535: Organizational Models of Innovation
This course will examine traditional and emerging models for how large organizations and other corporate entities engage to develop innovative offerings. Readings will cover recent developments in cooperative and open-sourced forms of innovation development.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Carlos Teixeira ~ T from 2 PM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 227 (add to cart)

IDN 542: Behavioral Design
This course will introduce how concepts from the field of behavioral economics can be thought of as another kind of "human factor" and ways in which they can help inform the process of design thinking.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ruth Schmidt ~ M from 6 PM to 9 PM in TBA (add to cart)

IDN 544: Diagram Development
Explores the language of diagrams as a communication means to represent different types of abstract, relational information. Students will be introduced to design principles of developing effective diagrams and multiple types of diagrams.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Tomoko Ichikawa ~ R from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 226 (add to cart)

IDN 550: Communication Design Workshop
A project-oriented workshop focusing on applying design principles to link theoretical methods to practice in the area of human-centered communication design. Students may take this class multiple times, non-concurrently, for a maximum of 12 credits towards their degree.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Studio (Class) ~ Tomoko Ichikawa ~ W from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 226 (add to cart)

IDN 556: Strategic Communication
This class teaches students how to use communication as a design method to accelerate synthesis and give tangible form to valuable information throughout the development process. Students are introduced to relevant theories of language, visual perception, visual representation, and communication.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jesse Gaskin IV ~ R from 6 PM to 9 PM in TBA (add to cart)

IDN 558: Innovation Narratives
In both professional and academic careers, there is an increased need for storytelling skills and self awareness. Creating passion-filled, compelling, and effective stories is a critical part of leadership.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Peter Zapf ~ M from 2 PM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 226 (add to cart)

IDN 568: Service Systems Workshop
This workshop introduces concepts of services, design principles, and methods that are needed for the design of service systems. Topics include the nature of services, customer acquisition and retention, value propositions in service business, service prototyping and pilot testing, stakeholder management, infrastructure, and operational and implementation issues. Students may take this class multiple times, non-concurrently, for a maximum of 12 credits towards their degree.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Workshop (Class) ~ Anthony Bynum, Heidi Fieschko ~ F from 2 PM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 211E (add to cart)

IDN 571: Introduction to Systems Theory
The course investigates principles and methods for representing and understanding structure and behavior of different types of systems. Various forms of theoretical and philosophical frameworks and methodologies are introduced to model and understand fundamental characteristics of domains of concern from different perspectives. Class topics include general systems theory, system modeling, causality, and formalisms. The class will also explore example applications of system concepts and modeling methods in design research.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Cheryl Dahle ~ M from 2 PM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 227 (add to cart)

IDN 573: Sustainable Solutions Workshop
In this course students will learn how to apply design methods and strategic thinking through open innovation practices for leveraging the interconnectivity of markets, technology, finance, and social networks in order to envision sustainable solutions with impact in the local lives and well-being of communities.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Workshop (Class) ~ Carlos Teixeira ~ T from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 227 (add to cart)

IDN 691: Ph. D. Research and Thesis
Research and thesis writing for Ph. D. degree
Spring 2025: Independent Study/Research (show all 5 sections)

IDX 505: Critique Methods
Explore the various types of critique and their usefulness at different stages of the design process
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ David O'Donnell ~ T from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 226 (add to cart)

IDX 508: Modes of Human Experience
Analysis of issues involved in a design project with a human factors perspective is an important step during user research and the design development process. Knowing the basic concepts and principles of human factors will enable students to be user centered in their approach.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Santosh Basapur ~ R from 6 PM to 9 PM in TBA (add to cart)

IDX 512: Product Design Workshop
This course is an opportunity for students to exercise their design muscles throughout an entire product development experience from framing through ideation to final concepts. Students may take this class multiple times, non-concurrently, for a maximum of 12 credits towards their degree.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Workshop (Class) ~ Martin Thaler ~ W from 2 PM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 211W (add to cart)

IDX 518: Interaction Design Methods
This course introduces methods for effectively describing the dynamic nature of interaction and applies them to different types of design cases.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Allison Karas ~ T from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 226 (add to cart)

IDX 523: Agile for Design Outcomes
Upon completion of this course students will be able to create a focused point-of-view and reframe a problem, decompose a strategy statement into “who, what, wow“ statements, generate a service blueprint, map to specific features and functions and a backlog of prioritized work – that can trace back to the strategic statement in a virtuous cycle.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Workshop (Class) ~ Adam Kallish ~ W from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 227 (add to cart)

IDX 524: Interaction Design Workshop
This workshop offers students the opportunity to practice methods for design research, concept development, interaction design, and rapid prototyping. Students may take this class multiple times, non-concurrently, for a maximum of 12 credits towards their degree.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Workshop (Class) ~ JoEllen Kames, Jennifer Levin ~ F from 2 PM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 211W (add to cart)

IDX 542: Analysis + Synthesis
This course is an overview of methods to analyze data and synthesize solutions that will likely be encountered as part of a design effort.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Anthony Bynum ~ M from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 226 (add to cart)

IDX 548: Innovation Methods
The course will present an overview of some of the key principles that drive design innovation followed by a broad look at the design innovation process, various methods, and frameworks.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jeremy Alexis ~ R from 2 PM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 211E (add to cart)

IDX 550: Building and Understanding Context
This course will improve critical thinking skills when wrestling with the wide variety of input and insight that often accompanies design initiatives. The course will include basic overviews of argumentation, secondary research, and group-based discussion methods.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Studio (Class) ~ Maura Shea ~ W from 2 PM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 226 (add to cart)

IDX 551: Facilitation Methods
Explores the methods and techniques to guide teams to desired outcomes in ways that build alignment, engagement, and momentum.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sari Gluckin, Susan Stirling ~ W from 2 PM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 227 (add to cart)

IDX 555: Metrics that Matter
In this course, students explore how designers can develop their own interim measurement strategies that are more sensitive to design’s influence, thereby building data and evidence for their adoption and success.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kim Erwin ~ R from 2 PM to 5 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 226 (add to cart)

IDX 560: Introduction to Design Thinking
An introduction to the techniques and process of problem definition and solution generation as used in the field of design.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Peter Zapf ~ F from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 227 (add to cart)

IDX 562: Multidisciplinary Innovation
Prototyping new business concepts for both designers and non-designers. A focus on inter-disciplinary collaboration
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Workshop (Class) ~ Anijo Mathew ~ F from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 211E (add to cart)

IDX 593: MDM Immersion
This course covers contemporary topics through a cohort exploration and hands on charette. Visiting lecturers will guide student through emerging and topical issues as they relate to how the field of design is changing. This course can be taken multiple times for up to 6 credits
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Jessica Meharry (add to cart)

IDX 594: Faculty Research
Classes, workshops, and seminars revolving around faculty specific research. Instructor permit only. Instructor will define requirements for enrollment. Students may take this class multiple times for a maximum of 24 credits toward their degree.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Kim Erwin (add to cart)

IDX 595: Internship
Supervision of participation in curricular practical training (CPT).
Spring 2025: 94 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Matthew Mayfield (add to cart)

IDX 597: Special Topics
Classes that cover special and contemporary topics in design. Students may take this class multiple times for a total of 24 credits toward their degree.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Studio (Class) ~ Zachary Pino ~ M from 9 AM to 12 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 211W (add to cart)

IDX 598: Independent Study
Student-driven course to explore contemporary issues in the field of design. Students may take this class multiple times, non-concurrently, for a maximum of 12 credits towards their degree.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Martin Thaler (add to cart)

IEP 023: IEP Listening and Speaking Level III
IEP Listening and Speaking Level III (IEP 023) develops more advanced listening and note taking skills as well as more complex oral skills in presentations, interviewing, and discussions. The goal of the course is to prepare the students to enter into the academic environment of a U.S. university. Placement in this course is based on placement exam results and/or the successful completion of IEP Listening and Speaking Level II (IEP 022).

6.000 Continuing Education Units



0.000 Other hours


Levels: Continuing Education

Schedule Types: Lecture


English Language Services Department
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Judith Sloane ~ WF from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 124 (add to cart)

IEP 024: IEP Listening and Speaking Level IV
IEP Listening and Speaking Level IV (IEP 024) continues the development of high level academic speaking and listening skills of the advanced students. One goal of the course is to further listening skills as they relate to comprehending and analyzing multiple listening excerpts and applying the material to academic tasks. A variety of speaking skills will be practiced with specific attention to understanding and communicating statistical data, results, trends, techniques, methods and differences of opinion. Placement in this course is based on placement exam results and/or the successful completion of of IEP Listening and Speaking Level III (IEP 023).


6.000 Continuing Education Units



0.000 Other hours


Levels: Continuing Education

Schedule Types: Lecture


English Language Services Department
Spring 2025: 19 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Judith Sloane ~ WF from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 124 (add to cart)

IEP 043: IEP Reading and Writing Level III
IEP Reading and Writing Level III (IEP 043) expands on the core reading and writing concepts developed in Level II. In this level, students will annotate, analyze, and use content from readings in order to write well developed responses. Additionally, students will focus on writing a well-developed essay. Placement in this course is based on placement exam results and/or the successful completion of IEP Reading and Writing Level II (IEP 042).

6.000 Continuing Education Units



0.000 Other hours


Levels: Continuing Education

Schedule Types: Lecture


English Language Services Department
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ellisa Cole ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 223 (add to cart)

IEP 044: IEP Reading and Writing Level IV
IEP Reading and Writing Level IV (IEP 044) focuses on advanced academic skills in reading and writing. The reading component focuses on analyzing multiple articles for similarities, differences, and strategies used to support the claim in an article. The writing component will culminate in writing a researched APA style essay. Placement in this course is based on placement exam results and/or the successful completion of IEP Reading and Writing Level III (IEP 043).

6.000 Continuing Education Units



0.000 Other hours


Levels: Continuing Education

Schedule Types: Lecture


English Language Services Department
Spring 2025: 19 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ellisa Cole ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 223 (add to cart)

IEP 063: IEP Grammar Level III
IEP Grammar Level III (IEP 063) is a continuation of Level II and builds on the previously acquired skill. This level focuses on developing high-intermediate grammar skills in order to communicate accurately in written and spoken English. Placement in this course is based on placement exam results and/or the successful completion of the IEP Grammar Level II (IEP 062).

3.000 Continuing Education Units



0.000 Other hours


Levels: Continuing Education

Schedule Types: Lecture


English Language Services Department
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Renata Phelps ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 212 (add to cart)

IEP 064: IEP Grammar Level IV
IEP Grammar Level IV (IEP 064) focuses on effective use of advanced grammar in writing and speaking and understanding complex grammatical structures in academic reading. The grammar points are presented in academic contexts and students practice editing their writing for effective and correct language use as well as practice controlling language accuracy in speaking. Placement in this course is based on placement exam results and/or the successful completion of IEP Grammar Level III (IEP 063).

3.000 Continuing Education Units



0.000 Other hours


Levels: Continuing Education

Schedule Types: Lecture


English Language Services Department
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Renata Phelps ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 212 (add to cart)

IEP 071: Introduction to United States Culture
Introduction to United States Culture (IEP 071) is designed to expose students to values, topics, and historical events that help to understand the way of life in the United States. Students will be able to reflect on the differences between the U.S. and their cultures, and they will have a chance to explore Chicago, as well as observe the concepts covered in class by participating in field trips.

3.000 Continuing Education Units



0.000 Other hours


Levels: Continuing Education

Schedule Types: Lecture


English Language Services Department
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Renata Phelps ~ F from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in IIT Tower 6C7-1 (add to cart)

IEP 096: Independent Study and Special Projects
Independent study and special projects under the direction of English Language Services instructors.

0.000 TO 21.000 Continuing Education Units

0.000 TO 21.000 Other hours


Levels: Continuing Education

Schedule Types: Independent Study/Research


English Language Services Department
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Ellisa Cole ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:15 PM in Perlstein Hall 109 (add to cart)

INTM 322: Industrial Project Management
Projects are the driving force behind innovation and improvement in any organization. This course identifies the tools and techniques needed to lead any project to its intended conclusion. Topics include project plans, managing expectations and contingencies, building a winning team, gaining commitments, managing project risks, and development of personal skills critical to the successful project manager.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Joseph Lazzara ~ W from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

INTM 403: Management and Leadership
Effective management of employees, teams, and organizations at large requires understanding the principles of organizational behavior and how leaders engage and motivate others to help them achieve organizational goals. Course topics focus on interpersonal skills, emotional intelligence, decision-making and problem-solving strategies, team and organizational communications, team dynamics, conflict and negotiation, power and influence in the workplace, leadership theories and attributes, organizational structures, organizational culture, and change management.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Theodossios Rigopoulos ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

INTM 407: Construction Technology
Introduces the full range of technologies involved in construction of both new and modified facilities, including steel, concrete and timber construction as well as supporting specialties such as HVAC, electrical, plumbing, etc. the interaction between the various construction trades will be covered along with the role of the architects and engineers.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Christopher Rawson ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

INTM 411: Functional Facilities Management
Covers key activities in facilities management, the role and responsibilities of the facilities manager, and the functional aspects of management and maintenance activities by building type (commercial, high rise, hotels, hospital, data center). Budgeting, strategic planning, and coordination of capital and operating projects; inspection, repair, and renovation of equipment and buildings in accordance with health and safety standards; managing internal staffing, external contractors, insurance and control activities (parking, waste disposal, building security, etc.). Information systems, real estate management, sustainability issues and emergency preparedness also covered.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Brian O'Kane ~ T from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in TBA (add to cart)

INTM 413: Contract Administration for Construction Projects
This course covers fundamentals of project administration and characteristics of the construction industry. Pre-construction discussion includes technical and economic feasibility, project delivery systems, documents, bonding, and bidding. Duties and liabilities of parties at pre-contract stage and during contract administration to include scheduling and time extensions, payments, retainage, substantial and final completion, change orders, suspension of work, contract termination, and dispute resolution. Labor law, labor relations, safety, and general management of a construction company.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Christopher Haite ~ W from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Wishnick Hall 113 (add to cart)

INTM 417: Construction Estimating
General approaches for estimating construction costs are covered. Several commercially available software packages are introduced. Emphasis is on acquiring the knowledge required to develop cost estimates for construction, renovation and maintenance projects for buildings, facilities and equipment.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Raymond Lemming, Lawrence Dorn ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Siegel Hall 118 (add to cart)

INTM 418: Industrial Risk Management
Each year, industrial companies are affected by critical incidents which cause disruption in operations and significant monetary losses due to repairs and/or lost revenue. Whether it is a small fire, an extended electrical outage or an incident of a more serious magnitude, all company stakeholders - from the board of directors to the employees to the customers - are impacted. The key to understanding the complexities of industrial resiliency lies in focusing on the issues of preparedness: prevention, mitigation, and control. This course is designed to prepare the student for managing a critical incident, including understanding risk and business impact, emergency preparedness, contingency planning and damage control.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Andrew Kumiega ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

INTM 419: Budgeting and Finance for Facility Managers
Budgeting for facility operations is a critical business activity which can have profound impacts for an organization due to operational subsystems and interdependencies. Overlooking system maintenance in one area by not including it in the budgeting process can affect other systems, leading to overall functional deterioration. Financial decision-making requires detailed analyses of up-front costs, life cycle costs, cost containment measures, lease vs. purchase opportunities, anticipated income and expenses, and benchmarking. This course covers generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and financial concepts, business planning, annual and capital budgets, costs and cost controls, project accounting, financial aspects of property development, leasing and letting, and current trends impacting/applicable to facility management.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Coates ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

INTM 425: Human Resource Management
This course will introduce students to key aspects of HR management, including legal requirements for all normal HR activities as well as techniques for dealing with employees when hiring, evaluating, promoting and terminating.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Pamela Van Den Bussche ~ R from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

INTM 430: Global Logistics Management
Introduces students to the various aspects of the logistics function within a firm’s operations. Covers planning, implementation and control of all activities governing the effective and efficient transportation and storage of products from the point of origin to the point of consumption, while conforming to all requirements. Topics covered include logistics as a competitive advantage, supply chain network design, making decisions involving inventory management, transportation and storage, logistics performance measurement, logistics IT, logistics security and risk management, and issues related to global trade including international contracts.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Theodossios Rigopoulos ~ M from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 225 (add to cart)

INTM 434: Digital Transformation
Explores current and emerging trends in the adoption of various digital technologies to help transform business operations. Key elements include IoT, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Data Analytics, RPA, Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality (and more) and how those are applied in various industries like Construction, Manufacturing, Transportation, Facility Management, etc. Students learn to identify and evaluate digital solutions to improve processes and/or products for any business. Emphasis on implementation and change management.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Meet Patel ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

INTM 438: Advanced Machining for Manufacturing 1
Today's leading edge manufacturing environment has advanced technology and systems embedded throughout its framework. This course exposes students to the functional aspects and capabilities of a 5-axis CNC machining center, and the processes involved in taking a machined part from prototype to production. This state-of-the-art technology is used by high-production companies around the world to create complex, precision-machined parts and products with tight tolerances and extreme repeatability. Students gain experience using SinuTrain simulators and hands-on learning on a 5-axis CNC machine. Coverage includes CNC programming and use of IIoT system technologies embedded in the machine to obtain internal diagnostics with real time data and connect with internal departments, suppliers and customers. Prior completion of a course in manufacturing processes highly recommended. First course in a two-course sequence.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicholas Villani, Naser Abas ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 112F (add to cart)

INTM 439: Advanced Machining for Manufacturing 2
Continues exploration of the functional aspects, capabilities and limitations of a 5-axis CNC machining center, building upon skills and knowledge obtained in AMM I. Students increase proficiency in metrology, geometric dimensioning and tolerancing per ASME standards, material sciences, and use of computer integrated technology (CAD, CAM and CIM). This course provides a top-to-bottom, hands-on experience for the manufacturing process and the technologies that surround it, with consideration of managerial perspectives and concerns.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicholas Villani, Naser Abas ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 112F (add to cart)

INTM 443: Purchasing
Purchasing responsibilities, processes, and procedures are included. Topics covered include: supplier selection and administration, qualification of new suppliers, preparing purchase orders, negotiating price and delivery, strategic customer/vendor relationships, and resolution of problems. All aspects of Supplier Relation Management (SRM) are covered.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Rakesh Thakkar ~ R from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

INTM 448: Agile Methodologies for New Product/Process Development
The development of new products and operational processes in a manufacturing setting requires collaboration and teamwork across multiple departments and flexible (agile) methods to expediently assess product/process viability and implement production without interrupting current operations. This course explores agile methodologies and management strategies involved in developing a new product or process, to include innovation and design, environmental concerns, market analysis, timing, budgets, collaborative strategies, patents and trade secrets, licensing and distribution, and marketing/pricing.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Cubon ~ R from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

INTM 461: Energy Options for Industry
Carbon-based fuels are a limited resource and within decades will be in very short supply. Associated energy costs will increase and industry will be required to incorporate alternate fuels and/or power sources, such as uranium (for nuclear power), hydroelectric, geothermal, wind, wave, solar, etc. This course presents such energy options and explores the anticipated impact on industry.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mark Barry ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in TBA (add to cart)

INTM 507: Construction Technology
Introduces the full range of technologies involved in construction of both new and modified facilities, including steel, concrete and timber construction as well as supporting specialties such as HVAC, electrical, plumbing, etc. The interactions between the various construction trades will be covered along with the role of the architects and engineers.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Christopher Rawson ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

INTM 518: Industrial Risk Management
Each year industrial companies are affected by critical incidents which cause disruptions in operations and significant monetary losses due to repairs and/or lost revenue. Whether it is a small fire, an extended electrical outage or an incident of a more serious magnitude, all company stakeholders-from the board of directors to the employees to the customers -are impacted. The key to understanding the complexities of industrial resiliency lies in focusing on the issues of preparedness: prevention, mitigation and control. This course is designed to prepare the student for managing a critical incident, including understanding risk and business impact, emergency preparedness, contingency planning and damage control.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Andrew Kumiega ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

INTM 530: Global Logistics Management
Introduces students to the various aspects of the logistics function within a firm’s operations. Covers planning, implementation and control of all activities governing the effective and efficient transportation and storage of products from the point of origin to the point of consumption, while conforming to all requirements. Topics covered include logistics as a competitive advantage, supply chain network design, making decisions involving inventory management, transportation and storage, logistics performance measurement, logistics IT, logistics security and risk management, and issues related to global trade including international contracts.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Theodossios Rigopoulos ~ M from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 225 (add to cart)

INTM 534: Digital Transformation
Explores current and emerging trends in the adoption of various digital technologies to help transform business operations. Key elements include IoT, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Data Analytics, RPA, Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality (and more) and how those are applied in various industries like Construction, Manufacturing, Transportation, Facility Management, etc. Students learn to identify and evaluate digital solutions to improve processes and/or products for any business. Emphasis on implementation and change management.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Meet Patel ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

INTM 538: Advanced Machining for Manufacturing 1
Today's leading edge manufacturing environment has advanced technology and systems embedded throughout its framework. This course exposes students to the functional aspects and capabilities of a 5-axis CNC machining center, and the processes involved in taking a machined part from prototype to production. This state-of-the-art technology is used by high-production companies around the world to create complex, precision-machined parts and products with tight tolerances and extreme repeatability. Students gain experience using SinuTrain simulators and hands-on learning on a 5-axis CNC machine. Coverage includes CNC programming and use of IIoT system technologies embedded in the machine to obtain internal diagnostics with real time data and connect with internal departments, suppliers and customers. Prior completion of a course in manufacturing processes highly recommended. First course in a two-course sequence.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicholas Villani, Naser Abas ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 112F (add to cart)

INTM 539: Advanced Machining for Manufacturing 2
Continues exploration of the functional aspects, capabilities and limitations of a 5-axis CNC machining center, building upon skills and knowledge obtained in AMM I. Students increase proficiency in metrology, geometric dimensioning and tolerancing per ASME standards, material sciences, and use of computer integrated technology (CAD, CAM and CIM). This course provides a top-to-bottom, hands-on experience for the manufacturing process and the technologies that surround it, with consideration of managerial perspectives and concerns.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicholas Villani, Naser Abas ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 112F (add to cart)

INTM 543: Purchasing
Purchasing responsibilities, processes, and procedures are included. Topics covered include: supplier selection and administration, qualification of new suppliers, preparing purchase orders, negotiating price and delivery, strategic customer/vendor relationships, and resolution of problems. All aspects of Supplier Relation Management (SRM) are covered.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Rakesh Thakkar ~ R from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

INTM 548: Agile Methodologies for New Product/Process Development
The development of new products and operational processes in a manufacturing setting requires collaboration and teamwork across multiple departments and flexible (agile) methods to expediently assess product/process viability and implement production without interrupting current operations. This course explores agile methodologies and management strategies involved in developing a new product or process, to include innovation and design, environmental concerns, market analysis, timing, budgets, collaborative strategies, patents and trade secrets, licensing and distribution, and marketing/pricing.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Cubon ~ R from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

INTM 561: Energy Options in Industry
Carbon-based fuels are a limited resource and within decades will be in very short supply. Associated energy costs will increase and industry will be required to incorporate alternate fuels and/or power sources, such as uranium (for nuclear power), hydroelectric, geothermal, wind, wave, solar, etc. This course presents such energy options and explores the anticipated impact on industry.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mark Barry ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in TBA (add to cart)

INTM 597: Special Projects
Independent study and project. Permission of instructor required.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 16 sections)

INTR 011: Undergraduate Part-Time Internship
This course prepares students participating in internships through Experiential Learning to excel in their careers. This is done by facilitating thoughtful connections between students’ academic, professional, and personal goals. Assignments given will allow students to reflect on how their knowledge, skills, and strengths can be applied to their internships. This introductory course to Experiential Learning helps students build skills for success in professional settings through knowledge and self-reflection. Students will utilize career readiness tools, learn networking techniques, and develop professional communication skills.
Spring 2025: 299 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ John Engelhardt, Jennifer Komorowski, Nicholas Mancari (add to cart)

INTR 012: Undergraduate Full-Time Internship
This course prepares students participating in internships through Experiential Learning to excel in their careers. This is done by facilitating thoughtful connections between students’ academic, professional, and personal goals. Assignments given will allow students to reflect on how their knowledge, skills, and strengths can be applied to their internships. This introductory course to Experiential Learning helps students build skills for success in professional settings through knowledge and self-reflection. Students will utilize career readiness tools, learn networking techniques, and develop professional communication skills.
Spring 2025: 300 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ John Engelhardt, Jennifer Komorowski, Nicholas Mancari (add to cart)

INTR 013: Graduate Part-Time Internship
This course prepares students participating in internships through Experiential Learning to excel in their careers. This is done by facilitating thoughtful connections between students’ academic, professional, and personal goals. Assignments given will allow students to reflect on how their knowledge, skills, and strengths can be applied to their internships. This introductory course to Experiential Learning helps students build skills for success in professional settings through knowledge and self-reflection. Students will utilize career readiness tools, learn networking techniques, and develop professional communication skills.
Spring 2025: 290 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ John Engelhardt, Jennifer Komorowski, Nicholas Mancari (add to cart)

INTR 014: Graduate Full-Time Internship
This course prepares students participating in internships through Experiential Learning to excel in their careers. This is done by facilitating thoughtful connections between students’ academic, professional, and personal goals. Assignments given will allow students to reflect on how their knowledge, skills, and strengths can be applied to their internships. This introductory course to Experiential Learning helps students build skills for success in professional settings through knowledge and self-reflection. Students will utilize career readiness tools, learn networking techniques, and develop professional communication skills.
Spring 2025: 264 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ John Engelhardt, Jennifer Komorowski, Nicholas Mancari (add to cart)

IPRO 497: Interprofessional Project (IPRO)
Interprofessional projects allow students to learn teamwork, leadership and project management skills, while working in multidisciplinary teams on projects involving technical, ethical, environmental, economic, public policy, and legal issues. IPRO project teams are typically comprised of 10-12 students from sophomore through graduate level and from all disciplines that can contribute to a project. Every effort will be made to accommodate students' first choices; however, it may be necessary to balance students across all projects scheduled for the semester or to consolidate students into fewer projects to meet minimum team requirement. Specific rules about selection of IPRO projects may apply to certain degree programs. Some projects may carry Humanities or Social Science credit. Students are encouraged to consult the lead faculty member for the project and their faculty advisor before registering for a project.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 21 sections)

ITM 301: Introduction to Contemporary Operating Systems and Hardware I
Students study the basics of computer architecture and learn to use a contemporary operating system. Hardware requirements, hardware components, software compatibility, and system installation topics are covered along with post-installation, storage, security and system diagnosis, and repair. Topics also include discussion of current and future technology industry trends.
Spring 2025: 22 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Vasilios Pappademetriou ~ M from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in IIT Tower 14C5-1 (add to cart)

ITM 303: Introduction to Contemporary Operating Systems and Hardware II
Introduces features of an advanced operating system, including basic commands, file and directory manipulation, security, and suitability for server applications. Popular and business-focused desktop and mobile device operating systems will be examined, as well as enterprise and open-source server implementations.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Vasilios Pappademetriou ~ W from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in IIT Tower 14C5-1 (add to cart)

ITM 311: Introduction to Software Development
A broad introduction to object-oriented programming and the related knowledge necessary to program in a contemporary programming language. This would include coverage of an Application Development Kit, a standard integrated Development environment, and the use of GUI components.
Spring 2025: 28 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Barry Speller ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 1:05 PM in IIT Tower 14C5-1 (add to cart)

ITM 313: Introduction to Open Source Application Development
Introduces basic concepts of systems programming using a modern open source language. Students learn to apply basic programming concepts toward solving problems, writing pseudocode, working with and effectively using basic data types, abstract data types, control structures, code modularization and arrays. They will learn to detect errors, work with variables and loops, and discover how functions, methods, and operators work with different data types. Students will be introduced to the object paradigm including classes, inheritance , and polymorphism.
Spring 2025: 19 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Sheikh Shamsuddin ~ F from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Hermann Hall 005 (add to cart)

ITM 497: Independent Study
Special projects.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ (add to cart)

ITM 691: Research and Thesis Ph.D.
Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Marwan Omar (add to cart)

ITMD 321: Data Modeling and Applications
Basic data modeling concepts are introduced. Hands-on database design, implementation, and administration of single-user and shared multi-user database applications using a contemporary relational database management system.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Barry Speller ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in IIT Tower 14C5-1 (add to cart)

ITMD 361: Fundamentals of Web Development
This course covers the creation and deployment of modern, standards-compliant web pages written in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript in the context of the client-server architecture of the web. Students create and deploy a website with multiple, structured pages cross-linked by a site navigation structure.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Daniel Krieglstein ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

ITMD 362: Human-Computer Interaction and Web Design
Students in this course will learn the importance of human-computer interaction design and the effectiveness of user-centered design. The course will cover a survey of methods frequently used in the HCI profession, such as usability testing and prototyping, as well as general design principles and the use design guidelines. A particular emphasis will be placed on usability for website engineering. Students will apply knowledge from the field in the design and construction of user-centered websites.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Daniel Krieglstein ~ R from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

ITMD 411: Intermediate Software Development
This course covers a broad spectrum of object-oriented programming concepts and application programming interfaces. The student considers the details of object-orientated development in topics of multi-threading, data structure collections, stream I/O and client interfaces. Software engineering topics of packaging and deployment are covered as well. Hands-on exercises reinforce concepts taught throughout the course.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Papademas ~ F from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 117 (add to cart)

ITMD 413: Open Source Programming
Contemporary open-source programming languages and frameworks are presented. The student considers design and development topics in system, graphical user interface, network, and web programming. Dynamic scripting languages are covered using object-oriented, concurrent, and functional programming paradigms. Concepts gained throughout the course are reinforced with numerous exercises which will culminate in an open-source programming project.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sheikh Shamsuddin ~ T from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in TBA (add to cart)

ITMD 415: Advanced Software Development
This course considers Web container application development for enterprise systems. The primary focus is on database connectivity (JDBC) integration with Web application programming using an enterprise-level application framework. A Web application term project considers the design and implementation of a database instance that serves as the information tier in a contemporary 3-tier enterprise solution.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Scott Spyrison (add to cart)

ITMD 422: Advanced Database Management
Advanced topics in database management and programming including client server application development are introduced. Expands knowledge of data modeling concepts and introduces object-oriented data modeling techniques. Students will learn the use of Structured Query Language in a variety of application and operating system environments.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Luke Papademas ~ F from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

ITMD 441: Web Application Foundations
In this course students examine core web technologies that are integral in the creation of web-based applications typically delivered in a browser. The course will cover fundamental web protocols, web application architectures, markup, and scripting languages. A focus will be placed on writing modern, standards-compliant JavaScript and how it is used to interact with HTML and CSS to enable rich user interfaces and communication with other services. Current frameworks, libraries, and tools will also be explored.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Anita Debarlaben ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 113 (add to cart)

ITMD 442: Full-Stack Web Development
This course covers the fundamental concepts and techniques of full-stack web development, focusing on server-delivered front-end content such as server-rendered HTML or JSON and its integration with back-end architectures and data stores.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Brian Bailey ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

ITMD 444: Back-End Development
This course emphasizes back-end, server-side components of web application development. It provides broad coverage of server-side data stores and languages, and surveys multiple leading server-side web development frameworks.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Raj Krishnan ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 225 (add to cart)

ITMD 455: Open-Source Intelligent Device Applications
Intelligent device application development is covered with various technologies on mobile and robotic platforms. Utilizing contemporary toolkits, the student considers design and development on emulated and real "smart" devices including smart phones, personal digital assistants, sensors, actuators, and robots. Numerous exercises reinforce concepts gained throughout the course. A term project will integrate course topics into a comprehensive intelligent device application.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Papademas ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 152 (add to cart)

ITMD 466: Service-Oriented Architecture
This course covers IT enterprise systems employing web services technologies in SOA and ESB architectural patterns. The student considers SOA which defines and provisions IT infrastructure and allows for a loosely-coupled data exchange over disparate applications participating in business processes. The simplification of integration and flexible reuse of business components within SOA is greatly furthered by ESB. Lab exercises using contemporary tool-kits are utilized to reinforce platform-agnostic course topics.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Hosea Lee ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

ITMD 504: Programing and Application Foundations
This course covers creation and deployment of modern, standards-compliant web pages written in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript in the context of the client-server architecture of the web. Fundamentals of programming in a modern programming language is covered. Basic data modeling concepts are also introduced, including hands-on database design, implementation, and administration of single-user and shared multi-user database applications using a contemporary relational database management system. These topics are taught in an integrated hands-on manner, where students will learn how frontend, backend, and database systems are written and deployed to work together in a full stack web application.
Spring 2025: 232 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Raj Krishnan (add to cart)

ITMD 510: Object-Oriented Application Development
This course covers a broad spectrum of object-oriented programming concepts and application programming interfaces. The student considers the details of object-oriented development in topics of multi-threading, data structure collections, stream I/O and clientinterfaces. Software engineering topics of packaging and deployment are covered as well. Strong emphasis is placed on the creation of applications providing solutions for defined business problems. Hands-on exercises reinforce concepts taught throughout the course.
Spring 2025: 35 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Papademas ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 152 (add to cart)

ITMD 511: Application Development Methodologies
Students learn concepts in a systematic approach to the analysis, design, implementation and maintenance of software. Includes studies of the various models of the software life-cycle, software development project management, system requirements analysis, and methodologies for practical application of these models to software development, including the use of CASE (Computer Aided Software Engineering) tools. Students apply these principles in projects to improve the quality of their development process and final products.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Travis Smith ~ F from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in IIT Tower 14C5-1 (add to cart)

ITMD 513: Open Source Programming
Contemporary open-source programming languages and frameworks are presented. The student considers design and development topics in system, graphical user interface, network and web programming. Dynamic scripting languages are covered using object-oriented, concurrent and functional programming paradigms. Concepts gained throughout the course are reinforced with numerous exercises which will culminate in an open-source programming project.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sheikh Shamsuddin ~ T from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in TBA (add to cart)

ITMD 514: Programming for Data Analytics
This course will introduce essential programming concepts and techniques used in analytics. Students will learn and make use of industry standard programming languages widely used in application programming for data and statistical analysis as well as other purposes. Students will understand and use various libraries for data manipulation, preparation, and analysis, and will be equipped to use the programming languages covered in real world scenarios and circumstances upon completion.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yuhan Ding ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

ITMD 515: Advanced Software Programming
This course considers Web container application development for enterprise systems. The primary focus is on database connectivity (JDBC) integration with Web application programming using an enterprise-level application framework. A Web application term project considers the design and implementation of a database instance that serves as the information tier in a contemporary 3-tier enterprise solution.
Spring 2025: 33 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Scott Spyrison (add to cart)

ITMD 521: Big Data Infrastructure
This course covers both concepts and practical applications of distributed data paradigms. This provides a comparison between SQL and MapReduce. The course focuses on how to treat and prepare unstructured data to be used in the MapReduce framework in a parallel fashion. Students will be tasked with learning and demonstrating the MapReduce framework through implementing the Hadoop framework and associated Java technology.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jeremy Hajek ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Tech Park - South Building 2030 (add to cart)

ITMD 522: Data Mining and Machine Learning
Data mining is a useful tool to uncover patterns and underlying relationships in large data by using data analytics and knowledge discovery techniques. Machine learning algorithms additionally learn from the data and make predictions or decisions by different optimization methods. This course is a graduate level survey of concepts, principles and techniques related to data mining and machine learning. Students will be familiar with data preprocessing skills and the popular data mining and machine learning techniques, including the supervised learning (regressions and classification) and unsupervised learning(clustering and association rules analysis), as well as semi-supervised learning and ensemble learning. Students will also learn the related applications, including text mining/NLP, Web mining, information retrieval and recommender systems. Students will learn R and Python programming for data mining and machine learning and be able to handle real-world data or applications.
Spring 2025: 46 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yong Zheng ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 104 (add to cart)

ITMD 523: Advanced Topics in Data Management
Advanced topics in database management and programming including client server application development are introduced. Students will learn the use of Structured Query Language in a variety of application and operating system environments. Expands knowledge of data modeling concepts and introduces object-oriented data modeling techniques with specific attention to the use of database management systems in response to defined business problems.
Spring 2025: 53 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Luke Papademas ~ F from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

ITMD 524: Applied Artificial Intelligence and Deep Learning
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is being used extensively to solve real-world complex problems. This course will deliver concepts and skills in both classical AI and modern AI. The classical AI refers to the fundamental knowledge in AI, such as search, logic, planning, uncertainty, game theory, Markov models, etc. Modern AI, by contrast, will be concentrated on machine learning and deep learning techniques, especially their applications in NLP, object recognition, recommender systems, etc. Students will learn how to use Python to solve specific AI problems.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yong Zheng ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 258 (add to cart)

ITMD 526: Data Warehousing
This class will introduce the student to concepts needed for successfully designing, building and implementing a data warehouse. The class will provide the technological and managerial knowledge base for data modeling approaches such as the star schema and database de-normalization issues. Topics such as loading the warehouse, performance considerations, and other concepts unique to the data warehouse environment will be discussed demonstrated in detail.
Spring 2025: 27 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Raj Krishnan ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

ITMD 534: Human and Computer Interaction
Introduction to human-computer interaction, a discipline concerned with the design, evaluation and implementation of interactive computing systems for human use. Emphasis is given to the structure of communication between people and computers, capabilities of people to use computers, concerns that arise in designing and building interfaces, design trade-offs, and the process of specification, design, and implementation of user interfaces. Particular emphasis is placed on practical design and usability of computer system user interfaces.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Subhashish Ghosh ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

ITMD 541: Web Application Foundations
In this course students examine core web technologies that are integral in the creation of web-based applications typically delivered in a browser. The course will cover fundamental web protocols, web application architectures, markup, and scripting languages. A focus will be placed on writing modern, standards-compliant JavaScript and how it is used to interact with HTML and CSS to enable rich user interfaces and communication with other services. Current frameworks, libraries, and tools will also be explored.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Anita Debarlaben ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 113 (add to cart)

ITMD 542: Full-Stack Web Development
This course covers the fundamental concepts and techniques of full-stack web development, focusing on server-delivered front-end content such as server-rendered HTML or JSON and its integration with back-end architectures and data stores.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Brian Bailey ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

ITMD 544: Back-End Development
This course emphasizes back-end, server-side components of web application development. It provides broad coverage of server-side data stores and languages, and surveys multiple leading server-side web development frameworks.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Raj Krishnan ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Stuart Building 225 (add to cart)

ITMD 555: Open-Source Intelligent Device Applications
Intelligent device application development is covered with various technologies on mobile and robotic platforms. Utilizing contemporary toolkits, the student considers design and development on emulated and real "smart" devices including smart phones, personal digital assistants, sensors, actuators, and robots. Numerous exercises reinforce concepts gained throughout the course. A term project will integrate course topics into a comprehensive intelligent device application.
Spring 2025: 24 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Papademas ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 152 (add to cart)

ITMD 566: Service-Oriented Architectures
This course covers IT enterprise systems employing web services technologies in SOA and ESB architectural patterns. The student considers SOA which defines and provisions IT infrastructure and allows for a loosely-coupled data exchange over disparate applications participating in business processes. The simplification of integration and flexible reuse of business components within SOA is greatly furthered by ESB. Lab exercises using contemporary toolkits are utilized to reinforce platform-agnostic course topics.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Hosea Lee ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

ITMM 471: Project Management for Information Technology and Management
Basic principles of project management are taught with a particular focus on project planning for information technology hardware, software and networking project implementation. Management of application development and major Web development projects will also be addressed.
Spring 2025: 21 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Brian Vanderjack ~ R from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

ITMM 481: Information Technology Entrepreneurship
This course prepares students to become leaders in information technology and to build ITM companies. Students design and develop a prototype ITM product and prepare a business plan and venture proposal presentation.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gurram Gopal ~ T from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

ITMM 482: Business Innovation
This course is designed to teach innovative thinking through theory, methods, and practice of innovation. The course incorporates Einstein's thinking, and Edison's method to establish the innovation process that can be applied in current business environment. Current economic conditions and global sourcing requires that innovation becomes a leading tool for developing a competitive edge. Innovation has been considered a competency of educated, design engineering, and a selected few employees that has become insufficient today. Corporations and organizations need innovation to develop customer-specific solutions in almost real time.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mark Campbell ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

ITMM 485: Legal and Ethical Issues in Information Technology
Current legal issues in information technology are addressed including elements of contracting, payment systems and digital signatures, privacy concerns, intellectual property, business torts, and criminal liability including hacking, computer trespass and fraud. Examination of ethical issues including privacy, system abuse, and ethical practices in information technology equip students to make sound ethical choices and resolve legal and moral issues that arise in information technology.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Raymond Trygstad ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

ITMM 537: Vendor Management and Service Level Agreements
Management of service level agreements (SLAs) at an enterprise level is presented from both a client and service provider perspective. Fundamental structure and issues of contract law are introduced and various models for management of service level agreements are presented. The role of SLAs in enterprise architecture and planning is addressed, and service level definitions, quality of service, and performance metrics are examined.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ramesh Rao ~ T from 3:15 PM to 5:55 PM in Stuart Building 225 (add to cart)

ITMM 571: Project Manangement for Information Technology Management
Basic principles of project management are taught. Includes software development concepts of requirements analysis, object modeling and design and software testing. Management of application development and major Web development projects will also be addressed.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Brian Vanderjack ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

ITMM 572: Process Engineering for Information Technology Managers
This course will provide students with the knowledge and skills to define, model, measure and improve business processes. The course will focus on re-engineering processes through the application of technology to achieve significant and measurable improvement. The course will explore the latest industry standards and students will use state-of-the-art software tools for hands-on experiential learning.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nazneen Hashmi ~ S from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

ITMM 574: Information Technology Management Frameworks
This course will examine the application of industry standard frameworks to the management of information technology infrastructure, development and operations. Frameworks including the Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL), Control Objectives for Information and related Technology (COBIT), and others will be covered. Students will learn to use these frameworks to tailor a set of concepts and policies to necessary manage IT in a specific enterprise.
Spring 2025: 33 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Rahul Patel ~ R from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

ITMM 581: Information Technology Entrepreneurship
This course prepares students to become leaders in information technology and to build ITM companies. Students design and develop a prototype ITM product and prepare a business plan and venture proposal presentation.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gurram Gopal ~ T from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

ITMM 582: Business Innovation
This course is designed to teach innovative thinking through theory, methods, and practice of innovation. The course incorporates Einstein's thinking, and Edison's method to establish the innovation process that can be applied in current business environment. Current economic conditions and global sourcing requires that innovation becomes a leading tool for developing a competitive edge. Innovation has been considered a competency of educated, design engineering, and a selected few employees that has become insufficient today. Corporations and organizations need innovation to develop customer-specific solutions in almost real time.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mark Campbell ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

ITMM 585: Legal and Ethical Issues in Information Technology
Current legal issues in information technology are addressed including elements of contracting, payment systems and digital signatures, privacy concerns, intellectual property, business torts and criminal liability including hacking, computer trespass and fraud. Examination of ethical issues including privacy, system abuse, and ethical practices in information technology equip students to make sound ethical choices and resolve legal and moral issues that arise in information technology.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Raymond Trygstad ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

ITMO 340: Introduction to Data Networks and the Internet
This course covers current and evolving data network technologies, protocols, network components, and the networks that use them, focusing on the Internet and related LANs. The state of worldwide networking and its evolution will be discussed. This course covers the Internet architecture, organization, and protocols including Ethernet, 802.11, routing, the TCP/UDP/IP suite, DNS, SNMP, DHCP, and more. Students will be presented with Internet-specific networking tools for searching, testing, debugging, and configuring networks and network-connected host computers. There will be opportunities for network configuration and hands-on use of tools.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Vasilios Pappademetriou ~ M from 5:40 PM to 8:20 PM in IIT Tower 14C5-1 (add to cart)

ITMO 356: Introduction to Open Source Operating Systems
Students learn to set up and configure an industry-standard open source operating system including system installation and basic system administration; system architecture; package management; command-line commands; devices, filesystems, and the filesystem hierarchy standard. Also addressed are applications, shells, scripting and data management; user interfaces and desktops; administrative tasks; essential system services; networking fundamentals; and security, as well as support issues for open source software. Multiple distributions are covered with emphasis on the two leading major distribution forks.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Barry Speller ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in IIT Tower 14C5-1 (add to cart)

ITMO 441: Network Administration and Operations
Students learn the details, use, and configuration of network applications. Currently protocols and application technologies considered include SNMP, SMTP, IMAP, POP, MIME, BOOTP, DHCP, SAMBA, NFS, AFS, X, HTTP, DNS, NetBIOS, and CIFS/SMB. Windows workgroups and domains: file and printer sharing, remote access, and Windows networking are addressed. A research paper in the above topic areas is required.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kevin Vaccaro ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

ITMO 444: Cloud Computing Technologies
Computing applications hosted on dynamically-scaled virtual resources available as services are considered. Collaborative and non-collaborative "cloud-resident" applications are analyzed with respect to cost, device/location independence, scalability, reliability, security, and sustainability. Commercial and local cloud architectures are examined. A group-based integration of course topics will result in a project employing various cloud computing technologies.
Spring 2025: 229 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Marwan Omar (add to cart)

ITMO 454: Operating System Virtualization
This course will cover technologies allowing multiple instances of operating systems to be run on a single physical system. Concepts addressed will include hypervisors, virtual machines, paravirtualization and virtual appliances. Both server and desktop virtualization will be examined in detail, with brief coverage of storage virtualization and application virtualization. Business benefits, business cases and security implications of virtualization will be discussed. Extensive hands-on assignments and a group project will allow students to gain first-hand experience of this technology.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Philip Matuszak ~ R from 5 PM to 8:20 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 258 (add to cart)

ITMO 463: Cloud: Software as a Service
Software as a Service (SaaS) allows consumers to use a provider’s applications running on a cloud infrastructure, accessible from client devices over a network through either a thin client interface, such as a web browser, or a program interface. Stu-dents will explore different approaches, techniques, tools and technologies to build, deploy, and manage cloud native applications.
Spring 2025: 240 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Jeremy Hajek (add to cart)

ITMO 464: Cloud: Platform as a Service
Platform as a Service (PaaS) allows developers to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure developer-created or acquired applications created using programming languages, libraries, services, and tools supported by the cloud provider. Students learn to develop applications and services using popular platforms and service tools, and to manage deployed applications as well as configuration settings for the applica-tion-hosting environment.
Spring 2025: 245 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Rahul Patel (add to cart)

ITMO 465: Cloud: Infrastructure as a Service
Infrastructure as a Service (SaaS) allows users to provision processing, storage, networks, and other fundamental computing resources which then allows them to deploy and run arbitrary software, which can include operating systems and applications. Students will learn how to provision, deploy and manage operating systems, storage, and deployed applications as well as virtual networking components such as switches, routers, and firewalls in a cloud environment accessible remotely through a network.
Spring 2025: 237 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Thomas Johnson (add to cart)

ITMO 540: Introduction to Data Networks and the Internet
This course covers current and evolving data network technologies, protocols, network components, and the networks that use them, focusing on the Internet and related LANs. The state of worldwide networking and its evolution will be discussed. This course covers the Internet architecture, organization, and protocols including Ethernet, 802.11, routing, the TCP/UDP/IP suite, DNS, SNMP, DHCP, and more. Students will be presented with Internet-specific networking tools for searching, testing, debugging, and configuring networks and network-connected host computers. There will be opportunities for network configuration and hands-on use of tools.
Spring 2025: 27 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Eric Breese ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in IIT Tower 16E4-1 (add to cart)

ITMO 541: Network Administration and Operations
Students learn the details, use, and configuration of network applications. Currently protocols and application technologies considered include SNMP, SMTP, IMAP, POP, MIME, BOOTP, DHCP, SAMBA, NFS, AFS, X, HTTP, DNS, NetBIOS, and CIFS/SMB. Windows workgroups and domains: file and printer sharing, remote access, and Windows networking are addressed. A research paper in the above topic areas is required.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kevin Vaccaro ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

ITMO 544: Cloud Computing Technologies
Computing applications hosted on dynamically-scaled, virtual resources available as services are considered. Collaborative and non-collaborative "cloud-resident" applications are analyzed with respect to cost, device/location independence, scalability, reliability, security, and sustainability. Commercial and local cloud architectures are examined. A group-based integration of course topics will result in a project employing various cloud computing technologies.
Spring 2025: 228 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Marwan Omar (add to cart)

ITMO 554: Operating Systems Virtualization
This course will cover technologies allowing multiple instances of operating systems to be run on a single physical system. Concepts addressed will include hypervisors, virtual machines, paravirtualization and virtual appliances. Both server and desktop virtualization will be examined in detail, with brief coverage of storage virtualization and application virtualization. Business benefits, business cases and security implications of virtualization will be discussed. Extensive hands-on assignments and a group project will allow students to gain first-hand experience of this technology.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Philip Matuszak ~ R from 5 PM to 8:20 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 258 (add to cart)

ITMO 556: Introduction to Open Source Software
This course will cover the fundamental concepts and philosophy behind free and open source software (FOSS). The course will discuss open source and free software licensing; open source business strategies and impact; FOSS utilization in the enterprise; and development methodologies. Students will learn to set up and configure an industry-standard open source operating system, including system installation, and basic system administration; system architecture; package management; command–line commands; devices, filesystems, and the filesystem hierarchy standard. Also addressed are applications, shells, scripting and data management; user interfaces and desktops; administrative tasks; essential system services; networking fundamentals; and security, as well as support issues for open source software. Multiple distributions are covered with emphasis on the two leading major distribution forks.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Raymond Trygstad ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

ITMO 565: Cloud: Infrastructure as a Service
Infrastructure as a Service (SaaS) allows users to provision processing, storage, networks, and other fundamental computing resources which then allows them to deploy and run arbitrary software, which can include operating systems and ap-plications. Students will learn how to provision, deploy and manage operating systems, storage, and deployed applications as well as virtual networking components such as switches, routers, and firewalls in a cloud environment accessible remotely through a network.
Spring 2025: 219 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Thomas Johnson (add to cart)

ITMS 418: Coding Security
This course examines security architecture elements within modern object oriented programming languages that create the framework for secure programming. Analysis of components and services with their inherent strength and weaknesses give rise to common coding security challenges. An exploration of identity management, encryption services and common hacking techniques will enable the student’s ability to develop secure code. Homework assignments and projects will reinforce theories taught.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Anuradha Rangarajan ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

ITMS 428: Database Security
Students will engage in an in-depth examination of topics in data security including security considerations in applications and systems development, encryption methods, cryptography law and security architecture and models.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Maurice Dawson ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

ITMS 438: Cyber Forensics
This course will address methods to properly conduct a computer and/or network forensics investigation including digital evidence collection and evaluation and legal issues involved in network forensics. Technical issues in acquiring court admissible chains-of-evidence using various forensic tools that reconstruct criminally liable actions at the physical and logical levels are also addressed. Technical topics covered include detailed analysis of hard disks, files systems (including FAT, NTFS, and EXT) and removable storage media; mechanisms for hiding and detecting hidden information; and the hands-on use of powerful forensic analysis tools.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Marwan Omar ~ W from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 117 (add to cart)

ITMS 446: Active Cyber Defense
This course covers the duties of cybersecurity analysts who are responsible for monitoring and detecting security incidents in information systems and networks, and for executing a proper response to such incidents. The course introduces tools and tactics to manage cybersecurity risks, identify various types of common threats, evaluate the organization's security, collect and analyze cybersecurity intelligence, and handle incidents as they occur.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Louis McHugh (add to cart)

ITMS 448: Cyber Security Technologies
Prepares students for a role as a network security analyst and administrator. Topics include viruses, worms, and other attack mechanisms, vulnerabilities, and countermeasures; network security protocols, encryption, identity and authentication, scanning, firewalls, security tools, and organizations addressing security. A component of this course is a self-contained team project that, if the student wishes, can be extended into a fully operational security system in a subsequent course.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Maurice Dawson ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:55 PM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

ITMS 478: Cyber Security Management
In-depth examination of topics in the management of information technology security including access control systems and methodology, business continuity and disaster recovery planning, legal issues in information system security, ethics, computer operations security, physical security and security architecture & models using current standards and models
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Thomas Johnson ~ W from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

ITMS 483: Digital Evidence
In this course, students learn the fundamental principles and concepts in the conduct of investigations in the digital realm. Students will learn the process and methods of obtaining, preserving and presenting digital information for use as evidence in civil, criminal, or administrative cases. Topics include legal concepts and terminology, ethics, computer crime, investigative procedures, chain of custody, digital evidence controls, processing crime and incident scenes, data acquisition, e-mail Investigations, applicable case law, and appearance as an expert witness in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Shawn Davis ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Hermann Hall 005 (add to cart)

ITMS 484: Governance, Risk, and Compliance
This course is an in-depth examination of topics in information technology/information security governance, risk, and compliance including information assurance policies, standards, and compliance as well as the examination of security risk analysis and the performance of systems certification and accreditation.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Steven Rubinow ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

ITMS 514: Programming for Cybersecurity Analytics
This course will introduce essential programming concepts and techniques used in analytics. Students will learn and make use of industry standard programming languages widely used in application programming for data and statistical analysis in cybersecurity as well as other purposes. Students will understand and use various libraries for data manipulation, preparation, and analysis, and will be equipped to use the programming languages covered in real world scenarios and circumstances upon completion.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yuhan Ding ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

ITMS 518: Coding Security
This course examines security architecture elements within modern object-oriented programming languages that create the framework for secure programming. Analysis of components and services with their inherent strength and weaknesses give rise to common coding security challenges. An exploration of identity management, encryption services and common hacking techniques will enable the student's ability to develop secure code. Homework assignments and projects will reinforce theories taught.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Anuradha Rangarajan ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

ITMS 527: AI for Cybersecurity
This course is designed to equip students with knowledge and skills necessary to understand, implement, and leverage artificial intelligence (AI) techniques in the realm of cybersecurity. In an era where cyber threats continue to evolve and grow in complexity, AI has emerged as a powerful tool to defend against and mitigate these threats. This course explores the intersection of AI and cybersecurity, providing a comprehensive understanding of how AI technologies can be used to protect computing systems. By the end of this course, students will be well-equipped to leverage the power of AI to enhance cybersecurity efforts, making them valuable assets in the ever-evolving landscape of digital security. Join us on this exciting journey into the world of “AI for Cybersecurity” and prepare to defend against the digital threats of tomorrow. The course is intended for students with a basic understanding of computing and cybersecurity concepts.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Marwan Omar ~ M from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

ITMS 528: Database Security
Students will engage in an in-depth examination of topics in data security including security considerations in applications & systems development, encryption methods, cryptography law, and security architecture & models.
Spring 2025: 34 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Maurice Dawson ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

ITMS 538: Cyber Forensics
This course will address methods to properly conduct a computer and/or network forensics investigation including digital evidence collection and evaluation and legal issues involved in network forensics. Technical issues in acquiring court-admissible chains of evidence using various forensic tools that reconstruct criminally liable actions at the physical and logical levels are also addressed. Technical topics covered include detailed analysis of hard disks, files systems (including FAT, NTFS and EXT), and removable storage media; mechanisms for hiding and detecting hidden information; and the hands-on use of powerful forensic analysis tools.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Marwan Omar ~ W from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 117 (add to cart)

ITMS 546: Active Cyber Defense
This course covers the duties of cybersecurity analysts who are responsible for monitoring and detecting security incidents in information systems and networks, and for executing a proper response to such incidents. The course introduces tools and tactics to manage cybersecurity risks, identify various types of common threats, evaluate the organization's security, collect and analyze cybersecurity intelligence, and handle incidents as they occur.
Spring 2025: 25 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Louis McHugh (add to cart)

ITMS 548: Cyber Security Technologies
Prepares students for a role as a network security administrator and analyst. Topics include viruses, worms, other attack mechanisms, vulnerabilities and countermeasures, network security protocols, encryption, identity and authentication, scanning, firewalls, security tools, and organizations addressing security. A component of this course is a self-contained team project that, if the student wishes, can he extended into a full operational security system in a follow-course,
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Maurice Dawson ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:55 PM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

ITMS 578: Cyber Security Management
In-depth examination of topics in the management of information technology security including access control systems & methodology, business continuity & disaster recovery planning, legal issues in information system security, ethics, computer operations security, physical security and security architecture & models using current standards and models.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Thomas Johnson ~ W from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

ITMS 583: Digital Evidence
In this course, students learn the fundamental principles and concepts in the conduct of investigations in the digital realm. Students will learn the process and methods of obtaining, preserving and presenting digital information for use as evidence in civil, criminal, or administrative cases. Topics include legal concepts and terminology, ethics, computer crime, investigative procedures, chain of custody, digital evidence controls, processing crime and incident scenes, data acquisition, e-mail investigations, applicable case law, and appearance as an expert witness in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Shawn Davis ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Hermann Hall 005 (add to cart)

ITMS 584: Governance, Risk, and Compliance
This course is an in-depth examination of topics in information technology/information security governance, risk, and compliance including information assurance policies, standards, and compliance as well as the examination of security risk analysis and the performance of systems certification and accreditation.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Steven Rubinow ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

ITMT 430: System Integration
In this capstone course, students will identify, gather, analyze, and write requirements based on user needs and will then design, construct, integrate, and implement an information system as a solution to a business problem. Students will document integration requirements using business process models and will learn and apply key systems integration architecture, methodologies, and technologies using industry best practices. User needs and user centered design will be applied in the selection, creation, evaluation, and administration of the resulting system. The system design process will take into account professional, ethical, legal, security, and social issues and responsibilities and stress the local and global impact of computing on individuals, organizations, and society. Discussion will also cover the need to engage in continuing professional development.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

ITMT 491: Undergraduate Research
Undergraduate research. Written consent of instructor is required.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Independent Study/Research) ~ Raymond Trygstad (add to cart)

ITMT 531: Object-Oriented System Analysis, Modeling, and Design
This course will cover object oriented approaches to system analysis, data modeling and design that combine both process and data views of systems. Emphasis is given to practical problems and the techniques needed to create solutions in systems design.
Spring 2025: 27 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Steven Rubinow ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Hermann Hall 010 (add to cart)

ITMT 591: Independent Study and Research
Research and Thesis for Masters' degrees. Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Louis McHugh (add to cart)

ITMT 594: Special Projects in Information Technology
Special projects.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ James Papademas (add to cart)

ITMT 597: Special Problems in Information Technology
Independent study and project.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 10 sections)

LA 497: Special Projects
Special projects.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ronald Henderson ~ W from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Crown Hall 005 (add to cart)

LA 502: History, Theory, and Criticism II: Landscape Architectural History
The chronological history of designed landscapes with an emphasis on the emergence of the profession of landscape architecture in North America in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kristopher Lucius ~ M from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Crown Hall 003 (add to cart)

LA 503: History, Theory, and Criticism IV: Advanced Contemporary Theory -- Case Studies
Twentieth century and contemporary landscape architecture is investigated through case studies including site visits to projects in the Chicago region.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Skowlund ~ M from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Crown Hall 005 (add to cart)

LA 514: Professional Practice of Landscape Architecture I: Entrepreneurship and Practice
Develop expertise in professional practice. Lectures, research assignments, and case studies will investigate practice models, proposals and contracts, schedules and budgets, project phases, project and client types, project team structure, the role of competitions, professional development, and licensure. In addition, the role of landscape architects, urban planners, real estate trusts, government agencies, developers, and others in directing the economic, professional, political, and socio-cultural concerns and responsibilities to initiate and manage landscapes will be investigated.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Andrew Tinucci, Brian Foote ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in IIT Tower 1F6-1 (add to cart)

LA 526: Design Media II: Digital Media
Using digital tools to clarify, conceptualize, represent, and communicate designed and engineered environments. A fluidity between critical, visual, and quantifiable digital techniques will be cultivated and will ground the management of information across software platforms.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Johann Friedl ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Crown Hall UC1 (add to cart)

LA 542: Landscape Architecture Studio II: Site and City
Continued development of the core tools of the discipline of landscape architecture focusing on the 21st century city. Rigorous site analysis will include emphasis on material, cultural, and ecological expression of city-scale networks and flows at the site scale. Design investigations will explore the site itself, its adjacent conditions, and the larger neighborhood or civic milieu.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Studio (Class) ~ Nilay Mistry ~ MWF from 1:50 PM to 5:50 PM in Crown Hall USE (add to cart)

LA 546: Landscape Architecture Studio VI: Metropolis
The design-based research studio is a continuation of the LA 545 research-based design studio. It is focused on the development of the specific proposals based on the critical findings of LA 545. The aim of the studio is to develop formal solutions which address the complexities of modern metropolis and advance disciplinary knowledge at large. The studio production is oriented toward the development of projects in a variety of scales from large-scale master plans, urban designs, and landscape designs to new urban typologies and singular buildings, all of which can address a variety of the issues pertinent to the modern metropolis. The studios are formed in few thematic clusters which complement each other or serve as dialectical opposites. Each studio explores variety of techniques from parametric design, digital fabrication, model making, and advanced geospatial software to cultural and theoretical discourses. Vertical studio integrating advanced BArch, MArch, MLA, MS, and PHD students. Students will be able to select from varied studio topics.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Studio (Class) ~ Maria Villalobos Hernandez ~ MWF from 1:50 PM to 5:50 PM in Crown Hall USE (add to cart)

LA 566: Ecology and Materials Workshop II: Earthworks and Infrastructures
The qualities and characteristics of landscape materials with emphasis on a quantitative and interrelated understanding of the design of landform (grading) and water. Covers the influence of climate, geology, soils, hydrology, and disturbances on the design of a site's constituent elements including paths and streets, infrastructure, plants, and water.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Janelle Johnson, Susan Weiler ~ F from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Crown Hall 014 (add to cart)

LA 568: Ecology and Materials Workshop IV: Constructing the Urban Environment
Techniques and technologies to analyze, construct, remediate and/or restore urban sites including those that have been subjected to complex human disturbances such as landfills and brownfields. Includes special needs construction practices such as structured soils, phytoremediation, green roofs, and rooftop gardens.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Jay Womack ~ R from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Crown Hall 014 (add to cart)

LA 597: Special Problems
Special problems in landscape architecture. For students in the master program in landscape architecture only.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Maria Villalobos Hernandez (add to cart)

LAW 100: Curricular Practical Training

Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Practicum (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 118: Legal Writing IV LLM
This course is designed as a full-semester legal research and writing course for international students in the LL.M. programs, many of whom are non-native English speakers. The course exposes students to research materials and techniques commonly used in the U.S. legal system, and introduces students to various forms of legal writing including office memoranda, court filings (e.g., complaints, motions) client letters, contract and transactional documents, and academic legal writing. The students are expected to complete six major writing assignments, several legal research exercises and projects, and an oral presentation throughout the semester, and the professor provides comprehensive written feedback on each written assignment. Other aspects of writing are also covered such as language style, usage, and grammar, and legal citation. (3 credit hours).
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

LAW 119: Legal Writing IV Equivalent
Students on Law Review, or who are taking Appellate Advocacy (Moot Court Honor Society), Criminal Litigation 2, Pretrial Litigation,
or are doing Judicial Externships, may satisfy the Legal Writing 4 requirement either by taking a regular Legal Writing 4 class in the
Spring, or by taking a Legal Writing 4 Equivalency Class this semester. If you take a Legal Writing 4 Equivalency Class this semester,
you may take Legal Writing 3 in either Fall or Spring. Please note: The Equivalency Class must be taken in the same semester as
the activity that qualifies you to take the Equivalency Class - you may not defer the Equivalency Class to a later semester.

Credit: 0
Spring 2025: 982 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Laurie Silvestri (add to cart)

LAW 134: Prof Responsibility:Bus Ethics
This course is designed to introduce students to real-world professional responsibility dilemmas faced by lawyers representing business organizations, engaging in transactional practice or working as in-house counsel or as compliance personnel. From the organization-as-client rule to Upjohn warnings and beyond, ethical issues are more common, relevant and subtle than one might think. Moreover, appropriately resolving professional responsibility questions is crucial to both individual career success and the reputation of the legal profession as a whole. Through a variety of teaching techniques, including simulations, this course will give students the opportunity to explore these issues with their practical ramifications and will seek to arm students with the tools and knowledge to tackle tough ethical questions with confidence. Business Organizations is a prerequisite. This course satisfies the Professional Responsibility graduation requirement.

Credit Hours
Two credit hours
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jenifer Robbins ~ R from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 520 (add to cart)

LAW 138: Hedge Funds
There are over two trillion dollars invested in hedge funds—investment giants that move and shape today's international financial markets. Yet many do not understand their significance or their complex workings. This course is designed to give you a practical understanding of hedge funds and the documentation that supports the formation and operation of these funds. We will examine the regulatory, compliance and business issues surrounding hedge funds and provide tools for successful fund implementation. We will also explore practical concerns with the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and the Investment Company Act of 1940 as well as current changes to the regulatory scheme, including Dodd-Frank. Prerequisite: Business Organizations. Securities Regulation is not a prerequisite but will be helpful.

Credit Hours
Two credit hours.
Spring 2025: 76 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Christopher Van Pelt, Christian Hennion ~ T from 5:30 PM to 7:20 PM in Downtown Campus 520 (add to cart)

LAW 142: Practice and Professionalism
The practice of law is being transformed by technological innovation and intense economic pressures to deliver more legal services for less. This course will provide students with a grounding in the ethical rules governing the legal profession with a special focus on the challenges presented by these developments in law practice. E-Discovery, electronic communications, and document recognition software are fundamentally altering not only the work that big law firms do but how they price it. Corporate clients are demanding changes to price structures as they grow increasingly unwilling to pay for any lawyer who is not already experienced or whose work can be performed adequately by a computer or a paralegal. Comparably, the commodification of routine legal documents for smaller, less complicated transactions, is allowing non-lawyers to perform many of the services traditionally performed by lawyers. Attorneys serving the market for personal legal services and small businesses need to learn how to provide and explain the unique value that they can provide as lawyers. Meanwhile, legal services agencies that serve low-income people are using technology vastly to increase the number of clients served. These technological innovations and the ways in which they affect the pricing of legal services inevitably affect lawyers' ethical obligations, particularly with regard to marketing, confidentiality and conflicts of interest. This course will draw on regional and national experts to help explain how technological change affects how law firms operate and then help students learn to anticipate next steps in the ethical delivery of legal services. This course fulfills the general graduation requirement that all students must take a course in Professional Responsibility.

Credit Hours
Three credit hours.
Spring 2025: 50 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Daniel Katz, Alexander Rabanal ~ MW from 4 PM to 5:25 PM in Downtown Campus 520 (add to cart)

LAW 161: Criminal Litigation 2

Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Joseph Claps, Alexandra Molesky ~ T from 6 PM to 7:50 PM in Downtown Campus 100 (add to cart)

LAW 163: Critical Legal Studies
Critical theory attempts to answer the age-old question, "what is law?," by asserting that law is the reflection of the political values of the dominant group within society. After a brief introduction to the more traditional theories of justice; such as natural law, legal positivism, and legal realism, students will take up the challenge of Critical Legal Studies. Subjects covered include an economic analysis of law; gender and sexual orientation; and critical race theory. Other possible topics include an evaluation of law and economics; the emergence of Sharia law; and the role of feminism in the 21st century.

Credit Hours
Two credit hours.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Matthew Stanton ~ R from 6 PM to 7:50 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 180: Loyola Programs

Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ ~ TR from 10:30 AM to 12 PM in TBA (add to cart)

LAW 202: Commercial Law: Secured Transactions
This course is concerned with the structuring and use of transactions in which personal property-automobiles, computers, rights to payment, wheat, etc.-is used to secure business and consumer debt. It examines the rights of the parties to a secured transaction (i.e., debtor and creditor) as between themselves and as against third parties. The emphasis is on security interests created under Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code.
Spring 2025: 35 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Adrian Walters ~ MW from 6 PM to 7:25 PM in Downtown Campus 170 (add to cart)

LAW 206: Legislation: Process & Interpretation
This course provides an introduction to the creation, implementation, and interpretation of statutes. Topics addressed in the course include: how a statute works its way through the legislative system; the roles that different institutions play in a statute's passage, interpretation, and enforcement; alternatives to our legislative processes; the ways in which statutes embody public policy; theories and doctrines of statutory interpretation; and the role of coures in the interpretive process. (This course was formerly entitled "Legislative Process.")
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Deadra Stokes ~ TR from 2 PM to 3:25 PM in Downtown Campus 510 (add to cart)

LAW 215: E Commerce
This course covers Internet contracting both domestically and internationally; payment systems and related privacy concerns; Internet business torts and anti-trust in e-commerce. Legal issues are examined against the background of the nature of e-commerce.
Spring 2025: 40 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Richard Warner ~ M from 2 PM to 3:50 PM in Downtown Campus 520 (add to cart)

LAW 216: Sports and the Law
This course will address sports, society, and law as a dynamic function of history, economics, and culture in America. The focus will be on legal issues unique to professional and amateur sports, including (a) the paradox of sports as a business that embraces competition on the field but not off, (b) the entertainment value of sports as a function of hero worship and the vicarious pursuit of personal identity, (c) the history and influence of society on sports, and (d) the effect of sports on society, including politics (Muhammad Ali), business (the Jordan effect), and sociology (such as the 18-year continuum from Jesse Owens to Satchel Paige, Jackie Robinson, and ultimately Brown v. Board of Education). Topics will include the baseball antitrust exemption, athlete eligibility, due process, sports injuries and violence, the evolution of sports broadcasting, Title IX, disabled athletes, drugs, and such contemporary issues as the Cubs rooftop cases, baseball steroids, and sports violence.
Spring 2025: 62 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ian Greengross ~ M from 6 PM to 7:50 PM in Downtown Campus C35 (add to cart)

LAW 232: Energy Law
This course offers a basic overview of the legal framework within which the production, distribution and sale of energy takes place. It is offered as part of the Program in Environmental and Energy Law but is open to all students. After a brief introduction to scientific concepts of energy and the history of energy technology, the course will survey the major sources of energy. The traditional sources have been oil, natural gas and coal converted to consumer products such as electricity and gasoline. Newer sources include nuclear and solar energy. Each source and delivery system has its own network of property rules and contract relationships. National energy policy will be reviewed and the impact of interregional competition on the regulation of energy will be studied, as will constitutional and economic concepts affecting the pricing of energy. Particular emphasis will be placed on energy issues in environmental law.
Spring 2025: 54 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Keith Harley ~ R from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 700 (add to cart)

LAW 251: Contracts
A study of issues of contract formation, interpretation, breach, defenses, and remedies. Both the common law and the Uniform Commercial Code's approach to contracts are explored. The evolution and modern understandings of contract doctrines such as "consideration," "offer and acceptance" and "conditions" are presented, as are various defenses to the prima facie case of contractual obligation. The class includes analysis of expectation, reliance and restitution as remedies for breach.
ᐧ
Spring 2025: 977 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Felice Batlan, Johnny Phillip Roeser ~ MW from 6 PM to 8:20 PM in Downtown Campus 210 (add to cart)

LAW 252: Law of Privacy
Privacy may be one of the most pervasively discussed issues in this decade as a result of the increased concerns for security in travel, the openness of the Internet, the consolidation of information in massive databases both by corporations and by governments, high incidence of identity theft, and the development of more and more highly sophisticated "listening and viewing" devices. This class examines privacy as protected by statute B through a patchwork of privacy acts B and the concomitant freedom of information requirements of a democratic government, as developed through tort doctrine in the courts, and as articulated through the Constitution of the United States and those of the various states. All aspects of privacy are considered, including wiretapping, government-required personal and business information, personal, family, and reproductive autonomy, the "right to be let alone," and the right of publicity.
Spring 2025: 37 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Elizabeth De Armond ~ MW from 4 PM to 5:25 PM in Downtown Campus (add to cart)

LAW 258: Civil Procedure
A study of basic restrictions upon the procedural systems of both the federal and state courts, and various aspects of civil litigation in the federal system. The course focuses on the requirements of due process as a limitation upon the personal jurisdiction that courts may exercise over defendants and on the subject matter jurisdiction of the federal courts imposed by Article III and congressional legislation. The course also addresses pleadings, challenges and amendments to pleadings, pretrial discovery, adjudication without trial, and other procedural issues.
Spring 2025: 929 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mark Rosen ~ MWF from 12:50 PM to 2:25 PM in Downtown Campus 510 (add to cart)

LAW 260: Legal Writing II
This course provides additional instruction in legal research, analysis, and writing, with a focus on written and oral advocacy. Students write both a trial and an appellate brief, and are introduced to oral advocacy through preparing and presenting a mock appellate argument.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 9 sections)

LAW 261: Property
An introduction to the law of property. Topics include: the meaning of ownership, including the right to exclude and the right to use reasonably; methods of acquiring ownership; the division of ownership into present and future interests; landlord and tenant law; multiple ownership; non-possessory interests and private arrangements for the control of use.
Spring 2025: 929 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jordana Goodman ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:50 AM in Downtown Campus 510 (add to cart)

LAW 265: Commercial Law: Payment Systems
An examination of the legal regulation of various methods of payment, with primary emphasis on checks and wire transfers and some consideration of letters of credit, credit cards, debit cards, stored-value cards, and cash. The course also deals with promissory notes, primarily as a means to explore the concept of negotiability. Coverage includes Uniform Commercial Code articles 3, 4, 4A, and 5.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Donald Spak ~ TR from 4 PM to 5:25 PM in TBA (add to cart)

LAW 266: Labor/Employment Class

Spring 2025: 996 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Marsha Ross-Jackson ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 581 (add to cart)

LAW 270: Crmnl Procedure Invstgtv Proc
A study of the legal rules, premolar constitutional, governing the operation of the criminal justice system from investigation to trial. Among the topics included in this course are: the meaning of due process; arrest, search and seizure; wiretapping and electronic eavesdropping; police interrogation and confessions; eyewitness identification procedures; the scope and administration of the exclusionary rules; and grand jury investigations.
Spring 2025: 59 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Zachary Sommers ~ TR from 2 PM to 3:25 PM in Downtown Campus 345 (add to cart)

LAW 273: Evidence
A study of the rules of evidence and the reasons underlying these rules, with particular emphasis on the Federal Rules of Evidence. Among the topics included are: competency and examination of witnesses, including impeachment; relevancy ; the hearsay rule and its exceptions; privileges; writings; opinion, expertise, and experts; notice; scientific and demonstrative evidence; and other issues.
Spring 2025: 34 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ David Erickson ~ MTR from 10:40 AM to 11:35 AM in Downtown Campus 270 (add to cart)

LAW 275: Constitutional Law
This course provides an introduction to the fundamental law of the United States as set forth in the Constitution and developed primarily by the United States Supreme Court. It addresses Supreme Court review, separation of powers, federalism, and protection of individual rights under the Fourteenth Amendment Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses. Specific topics include the Commerce Clause, race and sex discrimination, abortion and the right to privacy, and the concept of state action. These topics are explored in the context of the historical and theoretical foundations of American constitutionalism, including the role of the Supreme Court in American government and the controversy over different approaches to constitutional interpretation.
Spring 2025: 980 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Steven Heyman ~ TR from 6 PM to 7:50 PM in Downtown Campus 170 (add to cart)

LAW 280: Remedies
The course addresses the forms of relief available through the judicial process. Among the topics covered are equitable remedies such as injunctions and specific performance; damages; restitution; remedies for injuries to tangible and intangible property, personal injuries, breach of contract, and invasions of civil rights.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Anna Debush ~ MWR from 12:50 PM to 1:45 PM in Downtown Campus 590 (add to cart)

LAW 294: Design Law
Design is an essential feature of nearly every product and online service. Product manufacturers are investing record amounts to capture eye appeal. In the age of online marketplaces, where consumers can’t touch and feel a product, the appearance of a product is often pivotal in the consumer’s purchasing decision. Increasingly, the aesthetic appearance of products is a leading driver of sales. All of this interest begs the question: How are product appearances protected and enforced under existing intellectual property laws? This class studies the various intellectual rights used to protect design under U.S. law, including trade dress, design patents and copyright law. The course will also briefly consider sui generis design rights, as exemplified by the European Union design right, which have for many years been proposed for introduction in the United States. No prior IP course or knowledge is required or expected to enroll in the course. Three credit hours.
Spring 2025: 70 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sarah Fackrell ~ TR from 1 PM to 2:25 PM in Downtown Campus 580 (add to cart)

LAW 304: Immigration Law and Policy
This timely course explores the historical backdrop to modern immigration law and policy, its unique status in American law, and post-9/11 issues. Topics include immigrant status (family and employment), non-immigrant visas, citizenship, bases for exclusion and removal, and current refugee/asylum policy and procedures. Students may also visit the immigration court in Chicago.
Spring 2025: 38 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Alec Kempster, Nicholas Coenen ~ M from 7:35 PM to 9:25 PM in Downtown Campus 170 (add to cart)

LAW 309: Strat in Intellect Prop Law
This course is one of the three ways in which students participating in the Intellectual Property certificate Program can satisfy the requirement of a Capstone Experience. (The Capstone Experience requirement may also be satisfied by participation in the Intellectual Property Law ¿ Patent Clinic, or the completion of an Intellectual Property Externship). The course may be taken only by J.D. students enrolled in the Intellectual Property Certificate Program. It is intended to be taken in the last year of legal studies. This is a problem-solving course that will bring together learning from different intellectual property courses and from non-intellectual property courses, bringing home the inter-relationships between different bodies of law and asking students to apply that knowledge to a concrete problem faced by a fictional client. The course will be taught by several faculty members. During some class meetings, the class will meet as a group. Between these "team" meetings, the class will break into smaller groups (of approximately 8-12 students). These smaller groups will work with teams of two faculty in researching and discussing particular parts of the overall problem, will make oral reports to other members of the small group, and after the small group decides on the appropriate strategy will make oral and brief written reports to the entire class. The entire class will then discuss how best to advise the client to proceed and how best to effectuate the social and commercial objectives of the client. The course is intended to allow students to develop an appreciation of the contexts in which intellectual property problems arise, how to apply knowledge developed in intellectual property and other courses to a concrete problem, the considerations (legal and non-legal) that guide how lawyers approach those problems, and the real-life dynamics that affect the practice of intellectual property law. The class will be graded on a pass/fail basis, based upon performance in class (both when the entire class is present and in small groups) and based upon oral and written presentations.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ David Marr ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 704 (add to cart)

LAW 311: Estates and Trusts
A study of the law relating to the gratuitous transfer of property at death and in trust. The course will examine the formalities required for execution and revocation of a will, will contests, the problems incident to intestate succession, will substitutes, the creation and enforcement of private express trusts, the creation and enforcement of charitable trusts, and the use of class gifts and powers of appointment to introduce flexibility into estate plans. The course will also explore certain issues of elder law, such as living wills and health care powers of attorney.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith ~ MW from 9:50 AM to 11:40 AM in Downtown Campus 590 (add to cart)

LAW 335: National Security Law

Spring 2025: 74 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Geiringer, Barry Jonas ~ T from 6 PM to 7:50 PM in Downtown Campus 345 (add to cart)

LAW 339: Trial Ad 2 - LL.M.

Spring 2025: 989 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Adam Weber ~ R from 12:30 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 155 (add to cart)

LAW 340: Family Law
A study of the legal problems involved in the formation, continuation, and dissolution of the relationship of husband and wife, and the legal problems arising from the relationship of parent to child. Among the topics that may be discussed are are engagements; marriage requirements; marital rights and responsibilities; divorce; property distribution; child support; maintenance; parental rights; paternity; legitimacy; custody; adoption; and modern methods of conception.
Spring 2025: 41 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Katharine Baker ~ TR from 2 PM to 3:25 PM in Downtown Campus 520 (add to cart)

LAW 343: Juvenile Justice

Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Anthony Lucafo ~ W from 7:35 PM to 9:25 PM in Downtown Campus 580 (add to cart)

LAW 344: Crmnl Procedure Adjuc Proc
This course and Criminal Procedure: The Investigative Process are a study of the legal rules governing the operation of the criminal justice system from investigation to trial. Among the topics included in this course are: the right to counsel, transcripts and other aids; discovery and the failure of the state to disclose; pretrial publicity and change of venue; the right to a speedy trial; plea bargaining and guilty pleas; the right to a jury trial and problems of jury selection; ineffective assistance of counsel; sentencing; entrapment; double jeopardy; hearings into probable cause; and pretrial release.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ David Erickson ~ TR from 2 PM to 3:25 PM in Downtown Campus 590 (add to cart)

LAW 348: Patent Practicum
A traditional and problem approach to planning business transactions, focusing on choice and formation of a business entity, capital formation and financing, corporate restructuring, and purchase and sale of a business. The course will examine a cross-section of substantive law areas in planning and implementing business transactions.
Spring 2025: 990 seats avail. | Practicum (Class) ~ Paul Holly ~ R from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 354: Litigation Technology -LL.M

Spring 2025: 989 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Geetu Naik ~ R from 6 PM to 9 PM in Downtown Campus 155 (add to cart)

LAW 357: Prof. Development & Identity
In this course, students will be introduced to the concepts of professionalism, professional identity, and practice for lawyers. A key objective of the course is to assist students in beginning to cultivate a reflective mindset about professional life in the law and to develop the habits needed to exercise sound professional judgment as lawyers. The course will provide students with the basics of professionalism in the legal profession, a framework to assist them in forming their professional identity, and concrete career strategies in achieving their professional goals. Students will develop the skill of practiced self-reflection in legal settings, explore the kind of lawyer they want to become, and deepen their ability to apply their professional values in the practice of law. By participating in a variety of exercises, both within and outside the classroom, students will have the opportunity to cultivate the sense of professionalism that will serve them well throughout their legal careers.

Credit hours: One credit hour
Spring 2025: 784 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Rhonda de Freitas ~ T from 9 AM to 9:55 AM in Downtown Campus AUD (add to cart)

LAW 360: Corporate Finance
This course is intended to provide a basic understanding of how stocks and bonds are utilized in the capital formation process, how businesses raise capital, and how the capital formation process is regulated. In addition, the course covers some fundamental concepts of financial analysis and investment techniques.
Spring 2025: 30 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Tierney ~ R from 2 PM to 3:55 PM in Downtown Campus C40 (add to cart)

LAW 361: Securities Regulation
A study of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Among the topics included are: the registration and distribution of securities by issuers; exemptions from the registration requirements; offerings by underwriters and dealings; reorganizations; federal disclosure obligations; regulation of the securities markets, broker-dealers, proxy rules, tender offers, and civil liabilities for insider trading, Rule 10b-5 and short-swing profits.
Spring 2025: 62 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ajay Gupta ~ MW from 6 PM to 7:25 PM in Downtown Campus 270 (add to cart)

LAW 363: Antitrust
A study of antitrust law concerning problems of monopolies, price fixing, horizontal and vertical restraints on trade and mergers. The major federal legislation in the field, including the Sherman Act and the Clayton Act, are considered in detail.
Spring 2025: 62 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Paul Rogerson ~ TR from 6 PM to 7:25 PM in Downtown Campus C35 (add to cart)

LAW 365: Employment Discrimination
An in-depth examination of the federal law concerning discrimination in employment on the bases of face, sex religion, national origin, age, and disability. Topics covered include: Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, The Equal Pay Act, and The Americans with Disabilities Act. The Illinois Human Rights Act also falls within purview of this course, as does the common law development regarding wrongful discharge.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jamie Franklin ~ TR from 2 PM to 3:25 PM in Downtown Campus 170 (add to cart)

LAW 372: Administrative Law
A study of the legal problems involved in the creation, functioning, and control of government agencies (other than courts or legislatures) that engage in rule making or adjudication. Particular attention is given to the constitutional constraints on agency action, including those imposed by due process, separation of powers, and nondelegation doctrine. The investigative functions of agencies and the timing, method, and scope of judicial review of an agency's actions also are covered.
Spring 2025: 46 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Pedro Gerson ~ MW from 2 PM to 3:25 PM in Downtown Campus C40 (add to cart)

LAW 381: Const. Litigation Practicum

Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Practicum (Class) ~ Noah Smith-Drelich (add to cart)

LAW 384: International Trade
This course involves a comprehensive study of the international trading system, with attention to the role of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the IMF, and regional and bilateral trading arrangement (e.g. the European Union and the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement). The U.S. legal system with respect to international trade will be considered in detail, including discussion of constitutional issues, treaty-making, and Congressional and Executive authorities. Attention will be given to specific legislation and regulations involving export and import controls, as well as remedies against unfair trade practices. Current issues such as the implications of the EU's 1992 plan, the treatment of nonmarket economies, trade-related aspects of intellectual property, trade in services, and controls on the use of economic sanctions will be analyzed.
Spring 2025: 36 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sungjoon Cho ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:25 AM in Downtown Campus C20 (add to cart)

LAW 386: Foundations for Bar Success

Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kate Waldinger ~ F from 10 AM to 11:55 AM in Downtown Campus C20 (add to cart)

LAW 387: International Business Trans
An examination of the legal environment of business, focusing on the legal considerations specifically related to transactions having transnational elements. Among the topics discussed are: national laws relating to aliens and foreign transactions, the extraterritorial reach of American laws, international contracts, international technology transfers, international and commercial arbitration, and international investment. The respective roles of foreign law, foreign lawyers, and foreign clients in international business processes are also considered.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Edward Harris ~ MW from 1:10 PM to 2:35 PM in Downtown Campus C20 (add to cart)

LAW 391: Employment Relationships
This course will focus on the legal relationship between employer and individual employee. It will cover the common law aspects of that relationship, particularly contracts and torts. It will them examine statutory modifications of the common law. Statues that may be examined include, ERISA, the Civil Rights Acts, whistle-blower protection legislation, unemployment and workers compensation acts, Fair Labor Standards Act and OSHA. The course is recommended for students contemplating a labor law, corporate or general practice.
Spring 2025: 55 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Andrew Ziaja ~ MW from 2 PM to 3:50 PM in Downtown Campus C50 (add to cart)

LAW 402: Patent Law
Public policies underlying various invention protection systems are analyzed as background for understanding the fundamental concepts of U.S. patent law. The nature of patentable subject matter in the U.S. and the statutory requirements of utility, novelty, and nonobviousness are examined in detail. Students also consider the process of obtaining and enforcing patent rights. Such consideration includes an overview of the disclosure, enablement and claim requirements for a patent application, as well as the scope of protection granted to the owner of an issued patent. The interpretation of patent claims is covered, with special emphasis placed on constructing claims under the evolving doctrine of equivalents. Remedies for patent infringement are also reviewed, as well as the defense of patent misuse.
Spring 2025: 75 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jordana Goodman ~ TR from 2 PM to 3:25 PM in Downtown Campus 700 (add to cart)

LAW 405: Copyright Law
This course is a detailed examination of the entire range of copyright law, including protection for literary, musical, artistic, and other works of authorship. The course is centered on a consideration of the 1976 federal copyright statute, as amended by several recent pieces of legislation, including the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (the DMCA). Topics covered include what kinds of work are protected by copyright, ownership of copyright, and the rights and remedies provided by copyright law. In addition to exploring basic questions about the purposes, nature, and scope of copyright raised by the federal legislation, this course gives special attention to current controversies concerning the extension of traditional copyright principles to the online environment, the legality of peer-to-peer networks, protection for computer programs, Internet service provider liability, the constitutionality of new and greater forms of copyright protection, the interaction of copyright and free speech principles, and the effect of international treaties upon U.S. copyright law.
Spring 2025: 76 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Cathay Smith ~ MW from 4 PM to 5:25 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 407: Video Game Law
This course will examine the history of the commodities industry and the Commodities Exchange Act as amended. It will also discuss the operations and duties of the CFTC, the NFA and the commodities exchanges, including their enforcement and investigatory activities, their structure and their current and proposed regulations; the use of the futures markets by hedgers; the jurisdiction of the CFTC versus the SEC and the states; the registration requirements of various entities with the CFTC; arbitration and reparation procedures; the types of records and reports used by the commodities industry ; tax consequences for investors; forum-shopping and litigation strategies; and how to prepare a commodities case.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Monahan ~ M from 7:35 PM to 9:25 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 409: Business Organizations
This course examines how businesses are organized in the United States and the variety or legal regulations they face. It considers the different forms of business organizations, including sole proprietorships, general and limited partnerships, limited liability companies, and the various forms of incorporated business enterprises, with the goal of establishing which form of organization is best suited for a variety of business goals. The course emphasizes the rights and obligations of the various parties in the business relationship-employees, promoters, partners, and corporate officers, directors investors, and stockholders, as well as their attorneys. Special focus also is devoted to the question of control of closely-held corporations. These general themes are examined in the context of specific corporate issues, including executive compensation; proxy contests; basic securities fraud and insider trading; and mergers, acquisitions, and tender offers. The course also includes an introduction to basic principles of corporate finance.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Cary Shelby ~ TR from 2 PM to 3:50 PM in Downtown Campus C50 (add to cart)

LAW 415: Professional Responsibility
This course is designed to prepare students to recognize and deal with ethical issues in the practice of law. Topics investigated include: conflicts of interest, actual and potential, and the limits on representation required; confidentiality in the context of an adversarial system; lawyers' responsibilities as advocates in and out of the courtroom; ethical problems encountered by corporate and government lawyers; special problems facing prosecution and criminal defense lawyers; advertising and solicitation; and admission to the Bar. Actual and hypothetical problems are analyzed in light of the Code of Professional Responsibility and the Model Rules of Professional Conduct, subjecting both sets of rules to critical analysis.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sheldon Solow ~ T from 12 PM to 1:45 PM in Downtown Campus 704 (add to cart)

LAW 416: Trademarks & Unfair Comptn
This course covers the creation, maintenance, and enforcement of trademark rights, as well as related forms of protection under principles of unfair competition law. The course includes an examination of the public policies and economic considerations underlying trademark law, as well as all the basic issues (such as the prerequisites to trademark protection, the registration process, the grounds for excluding signs from protection or registration, the scope of trademark rights, restraining the distribution of imitation and counterfeit goods, and remedies available in trademark litigation). The course will also cover protection available under the general rubric of unfair competition law (including prohibitions on false advertising), as well as publicity rights afforded by state laws. In addition to these basic issues, the course will address issues of current interest, such as: protection of non-traditional subject matter such as product designs or colors; conflicts between trademark protection of non-traditional subject matter and the copyright or patent laws; protection of trademark rights against dilution, and the conflicts with free expression that this and other protection might precipitate; licensing of trademark rights; and reconciling the rights of competing users of trademark terms. Throughout, the course will address the application of trademark principles in new as well as traditional media, and will consider the problems raised by online use of trademarks.
Spring 2025: 73 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Floyd Mandell ~ TR from 6 PM to 7:25 PM in Downtown Campus 580 (add to cart)

LAW 419: Startup Lawyering
In this course, students will work closely with students in the Start-Up Accelerator Program at the Kaplan Institute to identify legal and ethical issues and reduce risks for emerging companies. Students will learn and apply legal concepts regarding the formation of business entities, the protection and preservation of intellectual property and other rights, and employment and contract issues. Students will gain a practical understanding of business law, particularly as it pertains to start-ups, and develop problem solving skills
to prevent and resolve legal issues faced by entrepreneurs. Each student team will select a start-up “client” from the Start-Up Accelerator Program. Students will be expected to meet weekly with their start-up clients and submit regular written reports and presentations regarding assigned topics as they pertain to their client. Each group will be expected to tailor legal analysis and problem solving for their particular client. Class sessions will entail an overview of specific legal issues (e.g. business formation) and student presentations of how that particular legal issue applies to their client (e.g. selecting the appropriate business form for the client).
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nancy Kim ~ W from 1 PM to 3:45 PM in Downtown Campus C35 (add to cart)

LAW 420: Mediation
An exploration of the mediation process as an alternative to traditional litigation. The course explores the role of the mediator as well as the role of attorneys in the mediation process. This is a simulation course in which students participate in several mediations.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Corinne Levitz, Michael Nathanson ~ W from 7:35 PM to 9:25 PM in TBA (add to cart)

LAW 421: Labor/Employment Law Externshp
The Labor/Employment Law Externship Program is offered through the Labor/ Employment Law Certificate Program. The externship is available to students enrolled in the Labor/Employment Law Certificate Program during their last year of the law school and is used to satisfy the experiential learning requirement of the certificate program. The educational objective of the externship is to provide the student externs with a well supervised lawyering experience in labor or employment law by enabling each of them to extern with a law school approved placement. Student externs are placed with a law firm, corporation, union or government agency. Externs spend approximately fifteen hours per week during the fourteen-week semester at their designated placements and attend periodic meetings with the faculty supervisor. Students in the program enroll in a three-credit field-work course grades on a pass/low pass/fail basis and a one credit graded classroom course.
Spring 2025: 996 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Marsha Ross-Jackson (add to cart)

LAW 423: The American Jury

Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nancy Marder ~ MTWRFS from 10 AM to 12 PM in Downtown Campus 305 ~ MTWRFS from 1 PM to 3 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 427: ADR in the Workplace
This will be a practical class covering employment-related alternative dispute resolution both in the union setting, focusing on collective bargaining and arbitration, and in the non-union setting, focusing on mediation and arbitration.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Emil Totonchi (add to cart)

LAW 429: Negotiations
This course examines the negotiation process engaged in by lawyers. It is intended to increase a students' understanding of that process and to develop skills as a negotiator. Experts in various fields discuss negotiations as they apply in those areas of the law. Students engage in mock negotiations in a variety of contexts, such as divorce, real estate, contracts, commercial law, labor law, and criminal law. Not all instructors cover each of these areas of substantive law and different instructors emphasize different areas of substantive law.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Evan Brown ~ R from 6 PM to 7:50 PM in Downtown Campus 520 (add to cart)

LAW 430: Comparative Law
This course examines the problems and issues that arise when a lawyer deals with foreign clients, foreign lawyers, or foreign law. It focuses on the differences in substance, procedure, methods, and ways of thinking between the United States and other countries, revealing the many ways in which the United States legal system is unique and evaluating the implications of this uniqueness. The course examines foreign laws and legal institutions and identifies ways in which lawyers can learn about and better understand systems other than their own and develop strategies for dealing with the effects of differences between systems.
Spring 2025: 41 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sungjoon Cho ~ MW from 4 PM to 5:25 PM in Downtown Campus 210 (add to cart)

LAW 431: Legal Writing 3
This course provides an introduction to non-litigation oriented transactional issues and documents, through shorter assignments than are the norm in Legal Writing 1 and 2, and on oral communication with colleagues and clients.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

LAW 432: Legal Writing 4
This course focuses on specialized legal research in areas such as environmental law, intellectual property, labor/employment law, and international law, and on drafting legal instruments common to these areas. Students are introduced to research resources and techniques in the particular area of focus, as well as in legislative history, administrative materials, international legal materials, and empirical research. Students typically will prepare several legal instruments for the specialty area and may be assigned a major paper in the subject area.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 10 sections)

LAW 435: Bankruptcy
After surveying the rights of creditors under non-bankruptcy law, this course focuses on how the Bankruptcy Code deals with those rights and other relationships involving the debtor. Topics covered include initiation of bankruptcy proceedings, the stay and its consequences, definition of the bankruptcy estate, claims, priorities, exemptions, discharge, avoidance powers, executory contracts, liquidation, reorganization, and other issues.
Spring 2025: 70 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Adrian Walters ~ TR from 2 PM to 3:25 PM in Downtown Campus C35 (add to cart)

LAW 441: Environ Law and Policy 2
This is the second semester of a two-semester course sequence. While it is required for students in the Program in Environmental and Energy Law, it is open to all students. Environmental Law and Policy 1 is not a prerequisite. The course emphasizes the Clean Air Act as a vehicle for exploring complex statutory schemes, administrative policy-making, market environmental controls, the interplay of federal and state environmental programs, benefit-cost analysis, risk analysis, and environmental litigation. The course will also examine global warming and the broader concept of climate change
Spring 2025: 53 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Keith Harley ~ T from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus C35 (add to cart)

LAW 450: Academic Skills Program TA

Spring 2025: 997 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 451: Data Privacy: Resp-Pre-Breach

Spring 2025: 68 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Blair Dawson ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 580 (add to cart)

LAW 457: Genocide & Crimes Against Humanity
This course explores the commission of genocide, war crimes, and crimes against humanity across the world. We will discuss the origins of the crime of genocide and historical evolution of war crimes and crimes against humanity; the perpetration and development of policies leading to mass atrocity crimes and ethnic cleansing; and the attempts by the international community to prevent and punish those most responsible for these crimes with the broader goal of ending impunity for serious violations of international humanitarian law. The class sessions will cover major trials from Nuremberg, the United Nations ad hoc Tribunals for Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia, and the International Criminal Court. May be taken either for regular course credit or for seminar credit.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Adam Weber ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 170 (add to cart)

LAW 459: Legal Theory
This is a theoretical course about the law, divided into two parts. In part one, we explore general jurisprudence (or sometimes “analytic jurisprudence”), the field of inquiry where thinkers try to determine what makes a norm a law and what makes some social arrangement a legal system. In part two, we explore approximately one dozen highly influential concepts for contemporary legal thought. These concepts were first developed in diverse fields such as social theory, political science, philosophy, economics as well as the legal academy. The course may be taken either for regular course credit, or for seminar credit. All students will be required to submit regular short response papers. Those taking it as a regular course will also write a 12-15 page paper due at the end of the semester. Those taking it for seminar credit will write a paper meeting the seminar requirements.
Spring 2025: 85 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Raffana Donelson ~ TR from 2 PM to 3:25 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 464: Public Interest Law & Policy
This course offers an overview of the issues faced by lawyers representing low income clients and lawyers who serve under-represented and disenfranchised groups. The course will begin with an investigation of the meaning of public interest law. The bulk of the course will cover the key cases decided and legislation passed since the 1960s when the Johnson Administration launched its war on poverty in the United States. These cases may include court decisions and legislation affecting income support for low income people including federal welfare programs, social security and state general assistance programs. Low income housing, medical care, nutrition and access to courts may also be explored. In addition, the course will explore ethical issues that arise when lawyers represent low income clients and professionalism questions that are raised by the special role lawyers play in providing access to justice.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Carolyn Shapiro ~ MW from 4 PM to 5:25 PM in Downtown Campus C35 (add to cart)

LAW 469: Real Estate Acquisitioons & Development
This course will take a practical approach to understanding current issues in real estate. Covered topics will include syndications, tax and securities law implications, real estate financing, zoning and land use, title and survey review, leases, condominium development, closing and post closing issues, Forcible Entry and Detainer, and commercial real estate asset management.
Spring 2025: 63 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jeffrey Rothbart, Michael Delrahim ~ T from 9:35 AM to 11:25 AM in Downtown Campus C40 (add to cart)

LAW 478: Computer & Network Privacy
More and more, both practice and the job market require lawyers who understand the interface between law and technology. This course provides a unique opportunity to understand that interface. No technical knowledge is required. Everything is explained in plain English. The course addresses the issue of privacy in an age of surveillance. How much privacy should we demand? Why does privacy matter? How is privacy to be defined? The course addresses security issues because in the Internet age there is no privacy without security and security failures may yet lead to the end of the Internet age. The course provides a unique opportunity to really understand the interface between law and technology.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Richard Warner ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:25 AM in Downtown Campus C25 (add to cart)

LAW 494: Legal Project Management & Legal Process Improvement
Whether undertaking work for a large institutional client, a small business or a single individual, legal project management and process improvement (such as Lean Six Sigma) can be effective for ensuring both quality and efficiency in the delivery of legal services. This course will expose students to legal project management and legal process improvement tools and techniques complemented by actual industry use cases. There will also be instruction on effective facilitation and change management techniques which are essential to managing and leading legal teams. Students will have the opportunity to learn from industry leaders through both direct instruction, hands-on exercises and actual legal project matter scenarios. If you have questions about this course, please contact Professor Katz.

Credit Hours
Two credit hours.
Spring 2025: 59 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Daniel Katz, Kyle Hoover ~ T from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 510 (add to cart)

LAW 495: Electronic Discovery
This class is designed to help future lawyers understand the shoots, ladders and traps that exist in the world of Electronically Stored Information (ESI). Students will learn what an attorney needs to consider when handling ESI in the litigation process; how both the federal rules of civil procedure and the federal rules of evidence affect this aspect of litigation; what e-discovery is and why it is so different from paper evidence; and when to bring in forensic specialists to advise them about electronic data or when to use an e-discovery coordinator to manage a project. This course will also discuss how to manage cost of production and processing, and how those considerations should affect an attorney¿s thought process when working with this type of information. Students will learn how preservation obligations and spoliation claims can come into play. This class will include hands-on experience with real ESI and will require a class project/presentation and final exam. Students must have a laptop with access to the school network in class. Students will to learn how to use different software packages as part of the class.
Spring 2025: 73 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Adam Bottner ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 345 (add to cart)

LAW 498: Lab to Law

Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Donald DeLoach ~ F from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in TBA (add to cart)

LAW 501: Indpndnt Rsrch in Lieu of Sem
Research under the supervision of a member of the faculty leading to the completion of a substantial paper fulfilling the seminar requirement. One credit hour per semester.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 11 sections)

LAW 504: Family Law Clinic 2
Students who intern in the Family Law Clinic work on cases dealing with legal separation, divorce, and child custody.

The In-House Programs of the Law Offices constitute one of the largest In-House clinical programs in the United States. In most of the programs, students are given the option of enrolling for three or four credits. Students who enroll for four credits put in a minimum of sixteen hours per week and students who enroll for three credits put in a minimum of twelve hours per week during the fourteen-week semester.

Each of the In-House clinical programs provides classroom as well as field-work instruction to the students enrolled in that program as part of their weekly hourly requirement.

Credit Hours
Three or four credit hours.
Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Rhonda de Freitas ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 545 (add to cart)

LAW 506: Justice and Techn Practicum
Students will explore access to justice issues, including the use of technology in law practice and legal services, alternative legal services delivery models, e-lawyering, unbundling and pro se litigant assistance. Class meets for one (1) hour each week to discuss assigned readings on these topics. Additionally, for twelve (12) hours a week students work on client service and drafting projects with the Center for Access to Justice & Technology (CAJT), whose mission is to provide low-income individuals with greater access to the legal system through the use of internet technology. The practicum provides students with experience in assisting self-represented litigants and providing legal information to low-income individuals. Students will also draft automated court forms and instructions for pro se litigants and the public. A variety of legal topics are available for student projects, including landlord/tenant, domestic relations and consumer rights. These drafting projects include the following activities: researching, drafting, and editing Web-based legal education materials and legal forms with instructions for the public, and developing plain language user interfaces for Web based document assembly. Some audio/video production may be used in creating these materials. The practicum requires twelve (12) hours per week spent on practicum activities outside of class. No prior technical training is required beyond normal computer familiarity with word processing. Students may earn additional credit the following semester by arrangement.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Alexander Rabanal ~ W from 10:40 AM to 12:30 PM in Downtown Campus 581 (add to cart)

LAW 509: BLSA Trial Advocacy

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 511: Mediation and Other ADR Proc
Students who intern in the ADR Program engage in training and practice in mediation, arbitration and other ADR techniques. They become certified as mediators over the course of the semester. Typical cases include juvenile court cases, criminal misdemeanor cases, employment discrimination cases, landlord-tenant disputed, and small claims court disputed. They also assist the clinical professors in arbitrating cases and drafting arbitration opinions.
Spring 2025: 992 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Pamela Kentra ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 581 (add to cart)

LAW 512: Criminal Clinic 1
Students who intern in the Criminal Defense Litigation Program work on criminal defense matters in the trial and appellate courts in both the federal and state legal systems. The program represents clients accused of felonies and misdemeanors of all types.
Spring 2025: 993 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Richard Kling ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 660 (add to cart)

LAW 515: Tax Clinic 1
Students who intern in the Tax Litigation Program assist taxpayers with their tax disputed, including collection matters, audits, appeals and litigation before the Internal Revenue Service, United States Tax Court and the United States District Court.
Spring 2025: 991 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 632 (add to cart)

LAW 520: D.C. Externship
This program is open to a limited number of students in their second or third year of law school. Students enroll in the program for three credits, graded on a pass/low pass/fail basis and devote a minimum of twelve hours per week during the fourteen-week semester. To be eligible to participate a student must be in the upper twenty-five percent (25%) of the class, have successfully completed or be currently enrolled in at least three designed commercial, tax or business-related courses by the time the placement begins. After the student had been accepted into the program, the clinical professor will work with the student to procure placement. The Tax, Corporate Tax, Business Law Externship Program currently has a limited number of available placements at the Internal Revenue Service, as in-house corporate legal department, a bank trust department, a law firm and an accounting firm. Three
Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ M from 3 PM to 4 PM in Downtown Campus 581 (add to cart)

LAW 521: Environmental & Energy Law Clinic
The Environmental Law Clinic will help students develop their lawyering skills by giving them the opportunity to represent individuals and community organizations with environmental concerns. Students will interview clients, represent clients in meetings with corporations and government officials, and represent clients in court. Cases range from assisting an individual who discovers she has lead paint in her home to helping communities with problems arising from active facilities, abandoned sites, and proposed facilities. The class sessions will provide an opportunity to observe and practice lawyering skills, develop an understanding of the key substantive environmental law areas involved in the clinic's work, and discuss ongoing cases. Students are required to perform 10 hours a week of fieldwork for the 3-credit version of the clinic, and 12 hours a week of fieldwork for the 4-credit version, in addition to the classroom component. Students are required to perform 5 hours a week of fieldwork for the 1-credit version. The clinic is open to 8 students each semester. If a selection process is necessary, you will be notified regarding the interview process after you register for the class. There are no course prerequisites for this clinic. Students must have completed 30 credit hours to take the Clinic. One, three, or four credit hours.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Keith Harley ~ M from 11:45 AM to 1:35 PM in TBA (add to cart)

LAW 523: Family Law Clinic 1
Students who intern in the Family Law Clinic work on cases dealing with legal separation, divorce, and child custody.

The In-House Programs of the Law Offices constitute one of the largest In-House clinical programs in the United States. In most of the programs, students are given the option of enrolling for three or four credits. Students who enroll for four credits put in a minimum of sixteen hours per week and students who enroll for three credits put in a minimum of twelve hours per week during the fourteen-week semester.

Each of the In-House clinical programs provides classroom as well as field-work instruction to the students enrolled in that program as part of their weekly hourly requirement.

Credit Hours
Three or four credit hours.
Spring 2025: 992 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Rhonda de Freitas ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 545 (add to cart)

LAW 526: Immigration Law Clinic 2
Students who intern in the Immigration Law Clinic work on cases in all areas of immigration law, including professionals, aliens of extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts and business, individuals seeking immigration benefits for family members, asylees and individuals threatened with removal from the United States by the government.

The In-House Programs of the Law Offices constitute one of the largest In-House clinical programs in the United States. In most of the programs, students are given the option of enrolling for three or four credits. Students who enroll for four credits put in a minimum of sixteen hours per week and students who enroll for three credits put in a minimum of twelve hours per week during the fourteen-week semester.

Each of the In-House clinical programs provides classroom as well as field-work instruction to the students enrolled in that program as part of their weekly hourly requirement.

Credit Hours
Three or four credit hours.
Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Victoria Carmona ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in TBA (add to cart)

LAW 530: Employment/Civil Litigation Clinic 1

Spring 2025: 994 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Jamie Franklin ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 601 (add to cart)

LAW 531: Employment/Civil Litigation Clinic 2

Spring 2025: 996 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Jamie Franklin ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 602 (add to cart)

LAW 532: Criminal Clinic 2
Students who intern in the Criminal Defense Litigation Program work on criminal defense matters in the trial and appellate courts in both the federal and state legal systems. The program represents clients accused of felonies and misdemeanors of all types.
Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Richard Kling ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 660 (add to cart)

LAW 535: Tax Clinic 2
Students who intern in the Tax and Probate Clinic participate in one of the country's leading tax clinics, aggressively representing clients in a wide variety of disputes with the Internal Revenue Service. A full-service federal tax controversy and transactions practice, the Tax and Probate Clinic primarily serves middle-income individuals and small business taxpayers in connection with IRS audits, administrative appeals, asset seizures and other debt enforcement actions, and trials before the United States Tax Court and the United States District Court.

Under the supervision of an experienced federal tax litigator, students receive hands-on practice negotiating settlements with revenue agents, appeals officers, and attorneys for the IRS; drafting petitions, discovery, motions and legal memoranda in connection with pending Tax Court trials; interviewing clients and securing information from third parties in order to defend a taxpayer's return position; preparing offers in compromise to reduce a taxpayer's outstanding debt; and taking an assortment of intervention measures to minimize or avoid immediate hardship resulting from IRS collection actions. Students also assist the supervising attorney and his staff with providing tax and business counseling services to sole proprietorships, corporations, partnerships and tax-exempt organizations.

Beginning with the Spring 2014 semester, students will also have the opportunity to assist the supervising Professor and staff attorney with drafting wills, living trusts, durable health care and financial powers of attorney, advising clients on property disposition and asset protection strategies, representing and counseling personal representatives in all facets of probate administration; defending interests of heirs and beneficiaries in connection with trust and estate disputes; and preparing all required decedent and estate income tax, trust and estate tax returns.

The In-House Programs of the Law Offices constitute one of the largest In-House clinical programs in the United States. In most of the programs, students are given the option of enrolling for three or four credits. Students who enroll for four credits put in a minimum of sixteen hours per week and students who enroll for three credits put in a minimum of twelve hours per week during the fourteen-week semester.

Each of the In-House clinical programs provides classroom as well as field-work instruction to the students enrolled in that program as part of their weekly hourly requirement.

Credit Hours
Three or four credit hours.
Spring 2025: 998 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 632 (add to cart)

LAW 536: IP Clinics
Student interns in the IP–Patent Clinic assist faculty and students at Illinois Institute of Technology, the University of Illinois at Chicago, and other tech-transfer or school-related companies or institutions on selected "real-life" patent related matters. The student interns work with and are supervised by adjunct clinical faculty who are patent lawyers at K&L Gates in providing patentability opinions, performing clearance searches, and guiding clients through the range of intellectual property legal issues that typically face start-up inventors and companies.

In addition, the student interns make presentations to Illinois Institute of Technology faculty and students on patent issues in an attempt to educate and market the IP–Patent Clinic to the faculty and students.

Prerequisites: Prior completion of Patent Law required. Because the IP–Patent Clinic experience will involve working with technology, it is very strongly recommended that students possess a technical background, and preference will be given those students in selecting clinic interns.

The IP-Patent Clinic is a 3-credit course that will be offered in the fall and spring semesters, and approximately five students participate each semester.

The In-House Programs of the Law Offices constitute one of the largest In-House clinical programs in the United States. In most of the programs, students are given the option of enrolling for three or four credits. Students who enroll for four credits put in a minimum of sixteen hours per week and students who enroll for three credits put in a minimum of twelve hours per week during the fourteen-week semester.

Each of the In-House clinical programs provides classroom as well as field-work instruction to the students enrolled in that program as part of their weekly hourly requirement.

Credit Hours
Three or four credit hours.
Spring 2025: 994 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Michelle Miller ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus C20 (add to cart)

LAW 537: Estate Planning/Prob. Clinic 1

Spring 2025: 994 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Deadra Stokes ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 547 (add to cart)

LAW 538: IP Clinics
Student interns in the IP–Patent Clinic assist faculty and students at Illinois Institute of Technology, the University of Illinois at Chicago, and other tech-transfer or school-related companies or institutions on selected "real-life" patent related matters. The student interns work with and are supervised by adjunct clinical faculty who are patent lawyers at K&L Gates in providing patentability opinions, performing clearance searches, and guiding clients through the range of intellectual property legal issues that typically face start-up inventors and companies.

In addition, the student interns make presentations to Illinois Institute of Technology faculty and students on patent issues in an attempt to educate and market the IP–Patent Clinic to the faculty and students.

Prerequisites: Prior completion of Patent Law required. Because the IP–Patent Clinic experience will involve working with technology, it is very strongly recommended that students possess a technical background, and preference will be given those students in selecting clinic interns.

The IP-Patent Clinic is a 3-credit course that will be offered in the fall and spring semesters, and approximately five students participate each semester.

The In-House Programs of the Law Offices constitute one of the largest In-House clinical programs in the United States. In most of the programs, students are given the option of enrolling for three or four credits. Students who enroll for four credits put in a minimum of sixteen hours per week and students who enroll for three credits put in a minimum of twelve hours per week during the fourteen-week semester.

Each of the In-House clinical programs provides classroom as well as field-work instruction to the students enrolled in that program as part of their weekly hourly requirement.

Credit Hours
Three or four credit hours.
Spring 2025: 998 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Michelle Miller ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus C20 (add to cart)

LAW 539: Immigration Law Clinic 1
Students who intern in the Immigration Law Clinic work on cases in all areas of immigration law, including professionals, aliens of extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts and business, individuals seeking immigration benefits for family members, asylees and individuals threatened with removal from the United States by the government.

The In-House Programs of the Law Offices constitute one of the largest In-House clinical programs in the United States. In most of the programs, students are given the option of enrolling for three or four credits. Students who enroll for four credits put in a minimum of sixteen hours per week and students who enroll for three credits put in a minimum of twelve hours per week during the fourteen-week semester.

Each of the In-House clinical programs provides classroom as well as field-work instruction to the students enrolled in that program as part of their weekly hourly requirement.

Credit Hours
Three or four credit hours.
Spring 2025: 995 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Victoria Carmona ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 660 (add to cart)

LAW 541: Intensive Trial Advocacy I
This is an intensive one-week version of Trial Advocacy 1 (see separate description). The course is offered every August prior to the start of the Fall semester and every January prior to the start of the Spring semester. Students who take Intensive Trial Advocacy are required to take Trial Advocacy 2 in the semester immediately following completion of the Intensive course.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ David Erickson (add to cart)

LAW 542: Advanced Clinic

Spring 2025: 998 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in TBA (add to cart)

LAW 548: AAJ Competition

Spring 2025: 987 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 550: Law Review
Preparation of articles and comments upon current legal and social problems for inclusion in the Chicago-Kent Law Review. Open only to members of the Board of Editors and the staff of the Law Review. One credit hour per semester. (maximum credit not to exceed five credit hours).
Spring 2025: 944 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 551: Moot Court Honor Society
Instruction in, and preparation of, appellate briefs and appellate oral arguments in intramural and national competition. One credit hour per semester.(Maximum credit not to exceed five credit hours.)
Spring 2025: 949 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 552: BLSA Moot Court

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 553: I P Moot Court

Spring 2025: 997 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 554: Environmental Law Moot Court

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 555: Trial Advocacy 1
An introduction to litigation taught by leading trial attorneys and judges. The course uses hypothetical cases to teach the student trial preparation, strategy, and conduct in a courtroom setting. Although the instructor will demonstrate from time to time, primary teaching method is student participation with instructor critique. Classes often run longer than three hours.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

LAW 558: Trial Advocacy 2
An in-depth study and performance of litigation skills in certain trial settings. The course is a continuation of Trial Advocacy 1. classes often run longer than three hours.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jeffrey Conen ~ R from 9 AM to 12 PM in Downtown Campus 100 (add to cart)

LAW 559: Legal Externship 1
The Legal Externship Program is a four-hour pass/fail program that enables a law student to receive academic credit (without pay) for working 16 hours a week in an approved legal placement under the supervision of a designated attorney. The program is unique in that it enables students to gain practical experience and develop their legal skills while at the same time making themselves more marketable to prospective employers. Legal Externship consists primarily of a fieldwork experience under a supervising lawyer, supplemented by individual meetings between the extern and his/her faculty advisor throughout the semester. Externs interested in civil law may select to work in corporations, firms or government agencies, specializing in such diverse legal areas as immigration, tax, commodities, securities, health care, medical malpractice, or general corporate law. Externs in criminal law may choose to work with the States Attorney's Office, Public Defender's Office, or the U.S. Attorney's Office. Some externships offer the opportunity to obtain a 711 license and appear in court. For permission to do an externship or for more information about available externship opportunities, please contact Professor Vivien Gross (vgross@kentlaw.edu).
Spring 2025: 980 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ T from 11 AM to 11:55 AM in Downtown Campus 547 (add to cart)

LAW 560: International Law Moot Court
Preparation of an appellate brief for the Jessup International Moot Court Competition. Students must have taken, or be taking concurrently, the course in International Law.
Spring 2025: 995 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Adam Weber (add to cart)

LAW 561: Independent Research
Research under the supervision of a member of the faculty.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 14 sections)

LAW 562: Lgl Writing Teach'g Asst

Spring 2025: 997 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 563: National Trial Team

Spring 2025: 997 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 565: Journal of Intellectual Prop.

Spring 2025: 996 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 567: Intensive Clinic

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 568: Intensive Clinic Seminar

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 570: Semester Law Firm Associate Program

Spring 2025: 998 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ M from 3 PM to 4 PM in Downtown Campus 545 (add to cart)

LAW 571: Legal Externship 2
Students who intern in the Immigration Law Clinic work on cases in all areas of immigration law, including professionals, aliens of extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts and business, individuals seeking immigration benefits for family members, asylees and individuals threatened with removal from the United States by the government.

The In-House Programs of the Law Offices constitute one of the largest In-House clinical programs in the United States. In most of the programs, students are given the option of enrolling for three or four credits. Students who enroll for four credits put in a minimum of sixteen hours per week and students who enroll for three credits put in a minimum of twelve hours per week during the fourteen-week semester.

Each of the In-House clinical programs provides classroom as well as field-work instruction to the students enrolled in that program as part of their weekly hourly requirement.

Credit Hours
Three or four credit hours.
Spring 2025: 993 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 547 (add to cart)

LAW 572: Judicial Externship 2
Judicial Externship is a four-hour pass/fail program open to second- and third-year students only, and is offered Fall, Spring, and Summer terms. The prestigious fieldwork component of the program provides externs with the opportunity to work with a federal judge and/or the judge's law clerks by researching law, writing memoranda and drafting opinions. The judicial extern becomes involved in particular legal problems and is able, through research and writing, to contribute to the resolution of those problems. Depending upon the judge, an extern may have the opportunity to observe the day-to-day routine of the courtroom and to discuss with the judge or the judge's law clerk those legal problems which judges confront in their courtroom. There is an accompanying discussion component that focuses on various aspects of federal judicial decision-making and, where appropriate, how those aspects affect the extern's work product. Selection of an extern is made by the individual judge through the application process which the law school oversees. To apply, students must meet the minimum G.P.A. requirement, which is approximately the top 22% in the second- and third-year classes, respectively. The exact G.P.A.'s will vary from year to year. For more information, contact Professor Vivien Gross (vgross@kentlaw.iit.edu).

Credit Hours
Four credit hours.
Spring 2025: 998 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ M from 1:05 PM to 2 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 573: Judicial Externship 1
Judicial Externship is a four-hour pass/fail program open to second- and third-year students only, and is offered Fall, Spring, and Summer terms. The prestigious fieldwork component of the program provides externs with the opportunity to work with a federal judge and/or the judge's law clerks by researching law, writing memoranda and drafting opinions. The judicial extern becomes involved in particular legal problems and is able, through research and writing, to contribute to the resolution of those problems. Depending upon the judge, an extern may have the opportunity to observe the day-to-day routine of the courtroom and to discuss with the judge or the judge's law clerk those legal problems which judges confront in their courtroom. There is an accompanying discussion component that focuses on various aspects of federal judicial decision-making and, where appropriate, how those aspects affect the extern's work product. Selection of an extern is made by the individual judge through the application process which the law school oversees. To apply, students must meet the minimum G.P.A. requirement, which is approximately the top 22% in the second- and third-year classes, respectively. The exact G.P.A.'s will vary from year to year. For more information, contact Professor Vivien Gross (vgross@kentlaw.edu).
Spring 2025: 990 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ M from 12 PM to 1 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 578: Externship-LL.M Trial Advocacy

Spring 2025: 979 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Adam Weber (add to cart)

LAW 579: Student Organization Moot Court

Spring 2025: 985 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 583: Employ Benefit Claims Clinic I
This is a practice-oriented class for Litigation and Alternative Dispute. Students participate in an intensive four-day mediation training program. Once certified as mediators, students mediate live cases under the supervision of the course instructor at the local courthouses and at the Center for Conflict Resolution. Typical cases include forcible entry and detainer, employment, juvenile, criminal misdemeanor, tort, contract and community disputes. One or two credit hours in Spring 1999; thereafter, two credit hours. Resolution Certificate Program students.
Spring 2025: 992 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ William Reynolds ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 155 (add to cart)

LAW 586: Emply Benefit Claims Clinic 2

Spring 2025: 998 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ William Reynolds ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 155 (add to cart)

LAW 587: AALSA Moot Court

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 588: Envrn Law Legal Externship 1
Students in the Program in Environmental and Energy Law have the opportunity to explore environmental opportunities in the public and public interest sectors. These externships help students develop their legal research and writing skills and substantive knowledge of environmental law. Externships are currently available at several government agencies and public interest groups: the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Regional Office, the Illinois Attorney General's Office (Environmental Division), the City of Chicago Law Department (Environmental Unit), the State's Attorney's office (Environmental Division), the Illinois Pollution Control Board, the Chicago Legal Clinic, the Lake Michigan Federation, the Illinois Commerce Commission, and the Environmental Law and Policy Center for the Midwest. Students should contact Professor Gross for more information about enrolling in this externship.
Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 547 (add to cart)

LAW 589: Envrn Law Legal Ext. 2

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 547 (add to cart)

LAW 590: Intellectual Prop Legal Ext. 1
The Intellectual Property Externship Program enables third-year students enrolled in the Intellectual Property Certificate Program to receive academic credit (without pay) for working 16 hours a week in an approved legal placement under the supervision of a designated attorney. The program is unique in that it enables students to gain practical experience and develop their legal skills while at the same time making themselves more marketable to prospective employers. The externship consists primarily of a fieldwork experience under a supervising lawyer, supplemented by individual meetings between the extern and Professor Gross throughout the semester. For more information about available externship opportunities, contact Professor Vivien Gross (vgross@kentlaw.edu).
Spring 2025: 996 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 547 (add to cart)

LAW 591: Law Review

Spring 2025: 998 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 593: Intell Prop Legal Ext. 2

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 547 (add to cart)

LAW 596: Criminal Lit. Legal Ext. 1

Spring 2025: 995 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 547 (add to cart)

LAW 597: Criminal Lit. Legal Ext. 2

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Jonathan Decatorsmith, Pamela Kentra ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 547 (add to cart)

LAW 612: LL.M. Individual Research

Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Nik Rokop (add to cart)

LAW 638: Video Game Law
This seminar will examine the varied legal issues that have spawned (and continue to spawn) in the video game space. Still a relatively new industry that continues to evolve at a breakneck pace, video games require lawyers to address substantive areas of law in new ways, particularly copyright and trademark law. The course follows a civilian approach to study persons in games, things in games, and how persons acquire things in games. Specific topics include: (a) special copyright considerations in video games, including fair use and DMCA protections; (b) games as entertainment products, and concerns of violent and mature content versus the value and protection of video games as speech under the First Amendment; (c) policing of video game content under self-regulation systems in the U.S. and Europe; (d) conflicts and compromises within the contractual relationships of game developers and game publishers; (e) the expanding role of gamers and their contributions to video games, such as through user-generated content, player communities, fan fiction, etc.; and (f) special legal challenges and controversies arising from online gaming and massively-multiplayer-online games (MMOs). Students will benefit from prior course work in intellectual property and other related topics, e.g., Copyright Law; Entertainment Law; Internet Law; or Trademarks and Unfair Competition, but these are not prerequisites. Students will be expected to write and present to the class a paper on a topic of their own choosing. Grading will be determined from the paper, presentation and class participation.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ James Monahan ~ M from 7:35 PM to 9:25 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 639: Honors Scholar Activity 2nd Yr

Spring 2025: 988 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Harold Krent (add to cart)

LAW 645: Honors Scholars Seminar 3rd Yr

Spring 2025: 992 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Harold Krent (add to cart)

LAW 676: Animal Law

Spring 2025: 77 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Keith Harley ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 583 (add to cart)

LAW 679: Public Sector Employees

Spring 2025: 994 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Helen Kim ~ T from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 871: Journal of Envr & Energy Law 1

Spring 2025: 998 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 872: Estate Planning/Prob. Clinic 2

Spring 2025: 997 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Deadra Stokes ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 547 (add to cart)

LAW 875: I.P. Entertainment & Entrepren

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Michelle Miller ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus C20 (add to cart)

LAW 876: I.P. Entertainment & Entrepren

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Clinical (Class) ~ Michelle Miller ~ M from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus C20 (add to cart)

LAW 877: International Externship

Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Externship (Class) ~ Adam Weber (add to cart)

LAW 878: Loyola Bar Exam Fundamentals

Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 895: J.S.D. Colloquium
Every candidate will participate in a 2-credit, yearlong J.S.D. Colloquium that will be devoted to discussions and presentations on research and writing and substantive presentations by the candidates in their areas of research. Every student is required in the first few months to present his or her dissertation proposal in the Colloquium. Toward the end of the school, year every J.S.D. candidate is also required to present the results of his or her first year of research. Members of the faculty are invited to participate.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 896: J.S.D. Colloquium OSDL

Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LAW 912: Critical Legal Studies
Critical theory attempts to answer the age-old question, "what is law?," by asserting that law is the reflection of the political values of the dominant group within society. After a brief introduction to the more traditional theories of justice; such as natural law, legal positivism, and legal realism, students will take up the challenge of Critical Legal Studies. Subjects covered include an economic analysis of law; gender and sexual orientation; and critical race theory. Other possible topics include an evaluation of law and economics; the emergence of Sharia law; and the role of feminism in the 21st century.

Credit Hours
Two credit hours.
Spring 2025: 25 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Matthew Stanton ~ R from 6 PM to 7:50 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 925: Juvenile Justice
This seminar will focus on the two main components of juvenile justice—delinquency and child protection. The Illinois Juvenile Court Act and the Juvenile Justice Reform Provisions of 1998 will provide the framework for the seminar. We will also explore the various agencies and their roles within the Juvenile Justice system. The 1998 reforms reflecting a balanced and restorative justice approach will be discussed as well as programs that incorporate its core principles. this seminar will also cover issues of confidentiality, dispositional hearings and other constitutionally protected rights specific to juvenile justice.

Credit Hours
Two credit hours.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Anthony Lucafo ~ W from 7:35 PM to 9:25 PM in Downtown Campus 580 (add to cart)

LAW 955: Legal Theory

Spring 2025: 86 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Raffana Donelson ~ TR from 2 PM to 3:25 PM in Downtown Campus 305 (add to cart)

LAW 957: Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity

Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Adam Weber ~ W from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 170 (add to cart)

LAW 958: The American Jury-Seminar

Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Nancy Marder ~ from 8:30 AM to 3 PM in TBA (add to cart)

LAW 965: Crimmigration

Spring 2025: 56 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Pedro Gerson ~ R from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 165 (add to cart)

LAW 966: Fashion Law

Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Felicia Caponigri ~ T from 4 PM to 5:50 PM in Downtown Campus 210 (add to cart)

LCS 600: Law Continuation Studies

Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Dummy Course (Class) ~ (add to cart)

LIT 380: Topics in Literature
An investigation into a topic of current or enduring interest in literature, which will be announced by the instructor when the course is scheduled.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Lise Evans ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Siegel Hall 204 (add to cart)

MATH 122: Introduction to Calculus
Basic concepts of calculus of a single variable; limits, continuity, derivatives, and integrals. Applications. This course does not count toward any business, computer science, engineering, mathematics, or natural science degree programs.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ David Maslanka ~ MWF from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 258 (add to cart)

MATH 147: College Algebra
This course is an in-depth study of the properties of the set of real numbers; operations with exponents (integer and rational), radicals, and logarithms; simplifying polynomials and rational expressions; and solving equations, inequalities, and systems of equations.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Fred Weening ~ MWF from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 119 (add to cart)

MATH 148: Preparation for Calculus
Review of algebra and analytic geometry. Functions, limits, derivatives. Trigonometry, trigonometric functions and their derivatives. Inverse functions, inverse trigonometric functions and their derivatives. Exponential and logarithmic functions. This course does not count toward any mathematics requirements in business, computer science, engineering, mathematics, or natural science degree programs.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kawkab Alhejoj ~ MWF from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Hermann Hall 010 (add to cart)

MATH 151: Calculus I
Analytic geometry. Functions and their graphs. Limits and continuity. Derivatives of algebraic and trigonometric functions. Applications of the derivative. Introduction to integrals and their applications.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Gorjana Popovic ~ MWF from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Hermann Hall 003 ~ F from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in IIT Tower 14C5-1 (add to cart)

MATH 152: Calculus II
Transcendental functions and their calculus. Integration techniques. Applications of the integral. Indeterminate forms and improper integrals. Polar coordinates. Numerical series and power series expansions.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

MATH 180: Fundamentals of Discrete Mathematics
Basic counting techniques, discrete probability, graph theory, algorithm complexity, logic and proofs, and other fundamental discrete topics. Required for students in the Bachelor of Information Technology and Management degree. This course does not count toward any computer science, engineering, mathematics, or natural science degree program. Credit will only be granted for one of MATH 180, MATH 230, and CS 330.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kiah Ong ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 102 (add to cart)

MATH 230: Introduction to Discrete Math
Sets, statements, and elementary symbolic logic; relations and digraphs; functions and sequences; mathematical induction; basic counting techniques and recurrence. Credit will not be granted for both CS 330 and MATH 230.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jeong-Hyun Kang ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 122 ~ F from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 122 (add to cart)

MATH 251: Multivariate and Vector Calculus
Analytic geometry in three-dimensional space. Partial derivatives. Multiple integrals. Vector analysis. Applications.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Arthur Lubin ~ MWF from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Hermann Hall 010 ~ R from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Hermann Hall 010 (add to cart)

MATH 252: Introduction to Differential Equations
Linear differential equations of order one. Linear differential equations of higher order. Series solutions of linear DE. Laplace transforms and their use in solving linear DE. Introduction to matrices. Systems of linear differential equations.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kapila Attele ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:45 PM in Perlstein Hall 108 (add to cart)

MATH 332: Elementary Linear Algebra
Systems of linear equations; matrix algebra, inverses, determinants, eigenvalues, and eigenvectors, diagonalization; vector spaces, basis, dimension, rank and nullity; inner product spaces, orthonormal bases; quadratic forms.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kapila Attele ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Perlstein Hall 108 (add to cart)

MATH 333: Matrix Algebra and Complex Variables
Vectors and matrices; matrix operations, transpose, rank, inverse; determinants; solution of linear systems; eigenvalues and eigenvectors. The complex plane; analytic functions; contour integrals; Laurent series expansions; singularities and residues.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kapila Attele ~ MW from 6:55 PM to 8:10 PM in Hermann Hall 007 (add to cart)

MATH 350: Introduction to Computational Mathematics
Study and design of mathematical models for the numerical solution of scientific problems. This includes numerical methods for the solution on linear and nonlinear systems, basic data fitting problems, and ordinary differential equations. Robustness, accuracy, and speed of convergence of algorithms will be investigated including the basics of computer arithmetic and round-off errors. Same as MMAE 350.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yuhan Ding ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 102 (add to cart)

MATH 374: Probability and Statistics for Electrical and Computer Engineers
This course focuses on the introductory treatment of probability theory including: axioms of probability, discrete and continuous random variables, random vectors, marginal, joint, conditional and cumulative probability distributions, moment generating functions, expectations, and correlations. Also covered are sums of random variables, central limit theorem, sample means, and parameter estimation. Furthermore, random processes and random signals are covered. Examples and applications are drawn from problems of importance to electrical and computer engineers. Credit only granted for one of MATH 374, MATH 474, and MATH 475.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Arthur Lubin ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Hermann Hall 007 (add to cart)

MATH 380: Introduction to Mathematical Modeling
This course provides an introduction to problem-driven (as opposed to method-driven) applications of mathematics with a focus on design and analysis of models using tools from all parts of mathematics.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Hemanshu Kaul ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 121 (add to cart)

MATH 402: Complex Analysis
Analytic functions, conformal mapping, contour integration, series expansions, singularities and residues, and applications. Intended as a first course in the subject for students in the physical sciences and engineering.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kiah Ong ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 102 (add to cart)

MATH 410: Number Theory
Divisibility, congruencies, distribution of prime numbers, functions of number theory, diophantine equations, applications to encryption methods.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jeong-Hyun Kang ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 121 (add to cart)

MATH 425: Statistical Methods
Concepts and methods of gathering, describing and analyzing data including basic statistical reasoning, basic probability, sampling, hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, correlation, regression, forecasting, and nonparametric statistics. No knowledge of calculus is assumed. This course is useful for students in education or the social sciences. This course does not count for graduation in any mathematics programs. Credit not given for both MATH 425 and MATH 476.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gorjana Popovic ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in TBA (add to cart)

MATH 446: Introduction to Time Series
This course introduces the basic time series analysis and forecasting methods. Topics include stationary processes, ARMA models, spectral analysis, model and
forecasting using ARMA models, nonstationary and seasonal time series models, multivariate time series, state-space models, and forecasting techniques.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Despina Stasi ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

MATH 474: Probability and Statistics
Elementary probability theory including discrete and continuous distributions, sampling, estimation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, and linear regression. Credit not granted for both MATH 474 and MATH 475.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Paul Musial ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Perlstein Hall 108 (add to cart)

MATH 476: Statistics
Estimation theory; hypothesis tests; confidence intervals; goodness-of-fit tests; correlation and linear regression; analysis of variance; nonparametric methods.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sergey Nadtochiy ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 106 (add to cart)

MATH 478: Numerical Methods for Differential Equations
Polynomial interpolation; numerical integration; numerical solution of initial value problems for ordinary differential equations by single and multi-step methods, Runge-Kutta, Predictor-Corrector; numerical solution of boundary value problems, and eigenvalue problems. Credit may not be granted for both MATH 478 and MATH 578.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Xiaofan Li ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 103 (add to cart)

MATH 485: Introduction to Mathematical Finance
This is an introductory course in mathematical finance. Technical difficulty of the subject is kept at a minimum while the major ideas and concepts underlying modern mathematical finance and financial engineering are explained and illustrated. The course covers the binomial model for stock prices and touches on continuous time models and the Black-Scholes formula.
Spring 2025: 21 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Tomasz Bielecki ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 103 (add to cart)

MATH 488: Ordinary Differential Equations and Dynamical Systems
Boundary-value problems and Sturm-Liouville theory; linear system theory via eigenvalues and eigenvectors; Floquet theory; nonlinear systems: critical points, linearization, stability concepts, index theory, phase portrait analysis, limit cycles, and stable and unstable manifolds; bifurcation; and chaotic dynamics.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Megan Morrison ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 102 (add to cart)

MATH 491: Reading and Research
Independent reading and research. **Instructor permission required.**
Spring 2025: Class (show all 7 sections)

MATH 501: Applied Analysis II
Bounded Linear Operators on a Hilbert Space; Spectrum of Bounded Linear Operators; Fourier Series; Linear Differential Operators and Green's Functions; Distributions and the Fourier Transform; Differential Calculus and Variational Methods.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Trevor Leslie ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 212 (add to cart)

MATH 515: Ordinary Differential Equations and Dynamical Systems
Basic theory of systems of ordinary differential equations; equilibrium solutions, linearization and stability; phase portraits analysis; stable unstable and center manifolds; periodic orbits, homoclinic and heteroclinic orbits; bifurcations and chaos; nonautonomous dynamics; and numerical simulation of nonlinear dynamics.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Megan Morrison ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 102 (add to cart)

MATH 525: Statistical Models and Methods
Concepts and methods of gathering, describing and analyzing data including statistical reasoning, basic probability, sampling, hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, correlation, regression, forecasting, and nonparametric statistics. No knowledge of calculus is assumed. This course is useful for graduate students in education or the social sciences. This course does not count for graduation in any mathematics program. Credit given only for one of the following: MATH 425, MATH 476, or MATH 525.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gorjana Popovic ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in TBA (add to cart)

MATH 545: Stochastic Partial Differential Equations
This course introduces various methods for understanding solutions and dynamical behaviors of stochastic partial differential equations arising from mathematical modeling in science, engineering, and other areas. It is designed for graduate students who would like to use stochastic methods in their research or to learn such methods for long term career development. Topics include the following: Random variables; Brownian motion and stochastic calculus in Hilbert spaces; Stochastic heat equation; Stochastic wave equation; Analytical and approximation techniques; Stochastic numerical simulations via Matlab; and applications to science, engineering, and other areas.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Igor Cialenco ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 119 (add to cart)

MATH 546: Introduction to Time Series
This course introduces the basic time series analysis and forecasting
methods. Topics include stationary processes, ARMA models, spectral analysis, model and forecasting using ARMA models, nonstationary and seasonal time series models, multivariate time series, state-space models, and forecasting techniques.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Despina Stasi ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

MATH 554: Modern Methods in Discrete Applied Mathematics
A graduate-level course that introduces students in applied mathematics, computer science, natural sciences, and engineering, to the application of modern tools and techniques from various fields of mathematics to existential and algorithmic problems arising in discrete applied math. Probabilistic methods, entropy, linear algebra methods, Combinatorial Nullstellensatz, and Markov chain Monte Carlo, are applied to fundamental problems like Ramsey-type problems, intersecting families of sets, extremal problems on graphs and hypergraphs, optimization on discrete structures, sampling and counting discrete objects, etc.
Spring 2025: 20 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Hemanshu Kaul ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 119 (add to cart)

MATH 563: Mathematical Statistics
Theory of sampling distributions; principles of data reduction; interval and point estimation, sufficient statistics, order statistics, hypothesis testing, correlation and linear regression; introduction to linear models.
Spring 2025: 27 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sergey Nadtochiy ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Hermann Hall 007 (add to cart)

MATH 569: Statistical Learning
The wealth of observational and experimental data available provides great opportunities for us to learn more about our world. This course teaches modern statistical methods for learning from data, such as regression, classification, kernel methods, and support vector machines.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Despina Stasi ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

MATH 574: Bayesian Computational Statistics
Rigorous introduction to the theory of Bayesian statistical inference and data analysis including prior and posterior distributions, Bayesian estimation and testing, Bayesian computation theories and methods, and implementation of Bayesian computation methods using popular statistical software.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Huiling Liao ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 102 (add to cart)

MATH 578: Computational Mathematics II
Polynomial interpolation; numerical integration; numerical solution of initial value problems for ordinary differential equations by single and multi-step methods, Runge-Kutta, Predictor-Corrector; numerical solution of boundary value problems, and eigenvalue problems. Credit may not be granted for both MATH 578 and MATH 478.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Xiaofan Li ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 103 (add to cart)

MATH 591: Research and Thesis M.S.
Prerequisite: Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Maggie Cheng (add to cart)

MATH 592: Internship in Applied Mathematics
The course is for students in the Master of Applied Mathematics program who have an approved summer internship at an outside organization. This course can be used in place of Math 523 subject to the approval of the director of the program.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Igor Cialenco (add to cart)

MATH 593: Seminar in Applied Mathematics
Current research topics presented in the department colloquia and seminars.
Spring 2025: 35 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Megan Morrison ~ M from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 104 (add to cart)

MATH 594: Professional Master's Project
The course is part of the capstone experience for students in the Master of Applied Mathematics program. Students will work in groups of 2 or 3 to study and analyze a real-world problem.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 8 sections)

MATH 597: Reading and Special Projects
Independent study as a reading course or master's project with a faculty member in Mathematics. Letter grading. May be taken more than once. Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 6 sections)

MATH 691: Research and Thesis Ph.D.
(Credit: Variable)
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

MATH 766: Variable Selection, Model Validation, and Nonlinear Regression
In this course, we will examine the variable selection procedures, logistic regression and generalized linear model.
Spring 2025: 74 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kiah Ong (add to cart)

MAX 501: Digital Marketing
The course examines digital marketing strategy, implementation and executional considerations for BtoB and BtoC brands and provides a detailed understanding of all digital channels and platforms. Participants will complete the course with a comprehensive knowledge of and experience with how to develop an integrated digital marketing strategy, from formulation to implementation. Using a variety of practical tools and techniques in practical exercises and projects, students will gain an understanding of using digital channels to achieve their marketing goals. Student teams will gain practical experience in usage of channels such as Search – SEO and SEA, Optimization and Marketing Display – Banners, Video and Beyond, Advanced topics Email – Design and Deployment Social – Networks, Media, and Content - Inbound Marketing Mobile and Emerging – Mobile Web, Apps and Ecosystems, Gaming, and beyond.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Bruno Castelo Branco ~ R from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 490 (add to cart)

MAX 502: Analytics for Decision Making
Spreadsheets are a popular model-building environment for managers. Add-ins and enhancements to Excel have made powerful decision-making tools available to the manager. This course covers how to use the spreadsheet to develop and utilize some of these decision-making aids. Visual Basic for Excel allows the nonprogrammer to create modules for functions, subroutines, and procedures. Topics include forecasting (both regression and time series), decision-making under uncertainty and decision trees, using SOLVER for optimization, and probabilistic simulation using @RISK.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jawahar Panchal ~ F from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 405 (add to cart)

MAX 503: Marketing Research and Engineering
Modern Marketing Research reflects the increasing sophistication of Marketing practice and the data rich environment that confronts market researchers. Throughout this course, we develop a basic knowledge of the use of data in order to understand customers and make marketing decisions ~ practical marketing problem solving. This course introduces the tools that managers use to develop consumer-centric marketing strategies and techniques to make better marketing plans, better product designs, and better decisions. Marketing engineering focuses on specific data-driven marketing tools, regression, cluster analysis, conjoint, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA), etc., and their application to specific marketing problems (segmentation and targeting, new product design, and forecasting) utilizing power of R language.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ghazale Haddadian ~ W from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 405 (add to cart)

MAX 504: Marketing Strategy
This course provides an introduction to the practice and strategy of marketing. Marketing activities are those processes and functions that enable managers and policy-makers to identify and serve the values and needs of a customer given the capacities of the company, activities of competitors, and inherent constraints in the business environment. Marketers typically refer to these concepts as the "four C's." Based on their understanding of the "four C's," students will then learn how to implement strategy by applying the levers of the marketing mix. These elements are known as the four P's (product, price, place/channels of distribution, and promotion). The treatment of marketing constraints and marketing mix will be motivated by essential foundations from economics, sociology, and consumer behavior. Over the course of the semester, students are expected to transition from thinking about these concepts in isolation to a dynamic, integrative framework. This process includes using the marketing strategy framework to assess business and policy problems from a "multiple objective" perspective: that is, the student will be asked to think about how marketing activities along with those of competitors and collaborators will affect the profitability, sustainability, social, and ethical standing of the firm. The synthesis of these concepts will be carried out through the use of case studies, problem sets, classroom lectures, discussions, and a field project. There will also be a midterm and final exam. The pedagogical style of the course emphasizes the students' role in applying the concepts discussed in the lectures to the situations at hand. The role of the instructor is to provide tools to structure thinking and to stimulate and facilitate analysis of the cases.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Robert Nelson ~ S from 1:30 PM to 4 PM in Downtown Campus 470 (add to cart)

MAX 506: Database Design and SQL
This course covers the fundamentals of relational databases including its design and provides an in-depth coverage of SQL which is the de-facto language used to manipulate relational databases. This course places emphasis on understanding the concepts and principles of both relational database design and SQL in a platform/software neutral manner which equip students to work with most database systems used in the modern workplace.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Dinakar Jayarajan ~ T from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 475 (add to cart)

MAX 507: Visual Analytics - Data Analytics & Visualization
This course provides an introduction as well as hands-on experience in data visualization. It introduces students to design principles for creating meaningful displays of quantitative and qualitative data to facilitate managerial decision-making . Analytics involves the extensive use of computer applications, data (both "big" and "small"), and quantitative methods to help drive business decisions. Students will learn essential theories, concepts, methodologies, and use leading computer tools to visualize and analyze real world data.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Elizabeth Durango-Cohen ~ R from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 405 (add to cart)

MAX 522: Predictive Analytics
The digital enterprise captures significantly more data about its customers, suppliers, and partners. The challenge, however, is to transform this vast data repository into actionable business intelligence. Both the structure and content of information from databases and data warehouses will be studied. Basic skills for designing and retrieving information from a database (e.g., MS Access) will be mastered. Data mining and predictive analytics can provide valuable business insights. A leading data mining tool, e.g., IBM/SPSS Modeler, will be used to investigate hypotheses and discover patterns in enterprise data repositories. Analysis tools include decision trees, neural networks, market basket analysis, time series, and discriminant analysis. Both data cleaning and analyses will be discussed and applied to sample data. Applications of data mining in a variety of industries will be discussed. Software exercises, case studies, and a major project will prepare the students to use these tools effectively during their careers.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Stanton Hudja ~ M from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 405 (add to cart)

MAX 523: Social Media Marketing Analytics
The course examines digital marketing analytics strategies, platforms for data ingestion, preparation, and reporting. The course focuses beyond social media marketing analytics. Digital marketing analytics is foundational to Digital Marketing because analytics is the language used to optimize and connect results across all digital marketing tactics – search, social media, email marketing, display ads, video ads, etc. An effective digital marketer is well versed in data and is a data translator for a business. Becoming well versed in analytics and data requires the cultivation of both technical and soft skills. This course aims to arm students with such skills.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Bruno Castelo Branco ~ W from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 475 (add to cart)

MAX 597: Independent Study in Marketing Analytics
Students can conduct in-depth research, usually on an independent and solo basis, under the guidance of a full-time faculty member. Typically, a student signs up with a faculty member who is willing to supervise his/her independent research on a particular marketing analytics-related topic. The student has to complete the independent study form, develop a one-page proposal outlining the purpose, process, and product (expected outcomes) of the independent research project, and submit it to the program director and instructor for approval.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Robert Nelson (add to cart)

MBA 501: Financial Statement Applications
This course is designed to develop each student’s financial analysis skill set. Throughout this course, students will be exposed to a variety of companies and industries with the goal of using various quantitative tools and qualitative factors to determine the financial health and risk of a company. The material covered in this course will correspond to various business applications including credit analysis, financial analysis, and investment analysis. During the latter part of this course, students will be exposed to advanced case study analysis using a team-building approach. MBA 501 will also introduce fundamental business concepts that will be used in other MBA courses.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Rybak ~ S from 9 AM to 1 PM in Downtown Campus 470 (add to cart)

MBA 504: Analytics for Decision Making
This course has the following objectives: (a) to offer a comprehensive presentation of Microsoft Office Excel 201x; (b) to acquaint students with the proper procedures to create workbooks and worksheets suitable for coursework and professional purposes; (c) to enhance and reinforce students' analytical skills and their ability to intelligently use information; (d) to teach the art and science of spreadsheet modeling; (e) to expose students to different approaches, support tools, and analytical methods for decision making; and (f) to improve students' critical thinking skills.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jawahar Panchal ~ F from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 405 (add to cart)

MBA 505: Microeconomics and Game Theory
This course applies economic principles to key decisions with organizations and solidifies intuition for understanding the business environments in which organizations operate. A key objective of the course is to develop tools useful in other Stuart courses. Economics is a key foundation for much of what is taught in finance, marketing, business strategy, environmental management, and virtually every other course in the graduate program. Economics is a way of thinking about problems, issues, and decisions that managers face in each of the functional areas of their organization. It stresses the importance of incentives in impacting human decision making and emphasizes the consideration of costs and benefits when making decisions. The course introduces and develops concepts in areas of microeconomics such as competition and market structure, incentive contracts, and pricing. Topics covered range from the most basic demand and supply models to principal-agent models and economics of information. The course will also touch on some of the primary macroeconomic topics (including GDP, inflation, and unemployment), topics in game theory (simultaneous and sequential games), and issues of ethics in economic policy-making pertaining to competitive and oligopolistic markets, pricing, and trade.
Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Priyanka Sharma ~ S from 9 AM to 1 PM in Downtown Campus 403 (add to cart)

MBA 506: Leadership and Organization Design
To succeed in today's knowledge intensive organizations managers need to understand how individual differences in personality, learning style and cultural values, group dynamics, organizational culture, and human resource management policies shape employee attitudes and behaviors. This course teaches managers creative problem-solving and ethical decision-making, change management, leadership techniques for enhancing social capital and influencing other organizational members, and management tools for multicultural and geographically dispersed teams. Students will relate management concepts and techniques to real-world situations through the extensive use of case studies and experiential exercises.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Smriti Anand ~ S from 9 AM to 1 PM in Downtown Campus 510 (add to cart)

MBA 509: Financial Management
In this course, the student will learn the concepts and processes that underlie enlightened financial decision making in a global world. Students will explore how to raise debt and equity capital, how to think about what portion of earnings to retain and reinvest and whether to share some earnings with stockholders via dividend payments or repurchase of shares, how to value stocks and bonds, how to distinguish good from bad financial decision rules, how to decide which projects a firm should engage in, how to use futures, options and swaps to manage firm risk, how to ensure good corporate governance, why sustainability can be profitable while still protecting future generations, and how to manage the financial decisions required to effectively operate in a global setting.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Junjie Ji ~ S from 9 AM to 1 PM in Downtown Campus 490 (add to cart)

MBA 511: Marketing Strategy
This course provides an introduction to the practice and strategy of marketing. Marketing activities are those processes and functions that enable managers and policy-makers to identify and serve the values and needs of a customer given the capacities of the company, activities of competitors, and inherent constraints in the business environment. Marketers typically refer to these concepts as the "four C's." Based on their understanding of the "four C's," students will then learn how to implement strategy by applying the levers of the marketing mix. These elements are known as the four P's (product, price, place/channels of distribution, and promotion). The treatment of marketing constraints and marketing mix will be motivated by essential foundations from economics, sociology, and consumer behavior. Over the course of the semester, students are expected to transition from thinking about these concepts in isolation to a dynamic, integrative framework. This process includes using the marketing strategy framework to assess business and policy problems from a "multiple objective" perspective: that is, the student will be asked to think about how marketing activities along with those of competitors and collaborators will affect the profitability, sustainability, social, and ethical standing of the firm. The synthesis of these concepts will be carried out through the use of case studies, problem sets, classroom lectures, discussions, and a field project. There will also be a midterm and final exam. The pedagogical style of the course emphasizes the students' role in applying the concepts discussed in the lectures to the situations at hand. The role of the instructor is to provide tools to structure thinking and to stimulate and facilitate analysis of the cases.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Robert Nelson ~ S from 1:30 PM to 4 PM in Downtown Campus 470 (add to cart)

MBA 513: Operations and Process Management
The course focuses on teaching students how to successfully analyze a business process, research methods of improving a process, and adapt/integrate the improvement methods into the business process in a prioritized and actionable manner.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jeffrey Berk ~ W from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 704 (add to cart)

MBA 522: Transformational Leadership in a Technology-Driven Marketplace
Modern organizations of all kinds face unprecedented disruption and change, driven in part by the universal impacts of technology, globalization and extreme forms of capitalism that push for better performance in the face of greater competitive threat. While change happens to or threatens an enterprise, its managers routinely face a choice – calmly protect what has historically worked or embrace and drive change as the new leadership paradigm. This course assumes the latter as the only successful approach for positive long-term performance. It is designed as an advanced experience that requires students to bring together foundational concepts they have learned throughout their curriculum, especially leadership, organizational change, strategy and innovation, and apply them to lead a hypothetical strategic change program. Students will, working in small teams, develop a strategic change plan that includes i) a rigorous diagnosis of their business and an articulation of a “burning platform” for change, ii) an innovative strategy, at the company as well as key functional levels, that is designed to drive improved performance, iii) a financial and implementation plan that recognizes the importance of milestones, momentum and organizational interdependencies, and iv) a mobilization and execution plan that engages the organization, puts structure, accountability and effective communication around strategic projects, and allows for iteration and improvement as the organization learns. Students will appreciate that change leadership is today’s standard of leadership and is relevant in any management role and in any type of organization.
Spring 2025: 448 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ John Walden (add to cart)

MBA 523: Negotiations and Strategic Decision Making
This course is designed to foster an understanding of incentives and strategic decision-making as they apply to negotiations. The course has both theoretical and applied components with the objective of addressing both theory and skills as they apply to dyadic and multiparty negotiations, to buyer-seller transactions, to competitors' interactions, to the resolution of disputes, and to the development of negotiation strategies. The theoretical component is focused on an analytical study of strategic interactions using game theory while the applied component is based on a series of simulated negotiations in a variety of contexts including one-on-one, multiparty, and team negotiations. The objectives of the course are to provide an analytical foundation, to show where practice and theory diverge, and to provide a forum where negotiation tools in a variety of business-oriented settings can be actively applied. Instructor permission is required.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Smriti Anand ~ T from 4:30 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 590 (add to cart)

MBA 532: Artificial Intelligence
This course is designed to provide an introduction to the evolving area of AI, with an emphasis on potential business applications and related managerial insights. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is the science behind systems that can program themselves to classify, predict, and offer solutions based on structured and unstructured data. For millennia, humans have pondered the idea of building intelligent machines. Ever since, AI has had highs and lows, demonstrated successes and unfulfilled potential. Today, AI is empowering people and changing our world. Netflix recommends movies, Amazon recommends popular products, self-driving cars learn to navigate safely around other vehicles without human assistance, and programmed robots distinguish trash from dishes that are to be washed. This course focuses on how AI systems understand, reason, learn and interact; learn from industry’s experience on several AI cases; develop a develop a deeper understanding of machine learning (ML) techniques and the algorithms that power those systems, and propose solutions to real world scenarios leveraging AI methodologies.
Spring 2025: 441 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Siva Balasubramanian (add to cart)

MBA 540: Data Science for Business
Adoption of Data Science concepts, methods and tools improve enterprise decision-making and performance. This course will include both the IBM online Data Science and Enterprise Design Thinking courses. Upon successful completion of these courses, IBM Badges for Data Science and Enterprise Design Thinking will be awarded. Additionally, the Python language that is preferred by industry will be taught for developing business analytical models. By the end of the semester, you will be well-prepared to solve business problems and identify opportunities. The primary machine learning tools are IBM WATSON Studio (cloud), Python, Jupyter notebooks and Mural for design thinking. The text, readings, and software lab experience will enhance your personal competitive advantage.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Martin Bariff ~ R from 9:30 AM to 11:30 AM in TBA (add to cart)

MBA 564: Global Business Strategy
For Western MNCs, some of the most intriguing growth opportunities in the Next Economy exist in low-income segments, the so-called markets at the bottom of the income pyramid, in emerging and underdeveloped countries of the world. Historically, MNCs targeted the customers at the top of the pyramid in these countries because their business models worked well for them. But as these bottom-of-the-pyramid markets become more economically profitable, MNCs need to make a serious attempt to evaluate and target them. In order to successfully compete for customers in these markets, MNCs should design innovative business models that could represent a radical departure from the way they do business in more advanced countries. This course is about such business model innovation. Students will learn tools of international market opportunity analysis, foreign market entry strategies, the social, economical, and ethical factors affecting decisions to serve low income customers, the stringent requirements of the customers at the bottom of the pyramid, and business models to profitably serve these customers.
Spring 2025: 128 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ M Krishna Erramilli (add to cart)

MBA 576: New Technology Ventures (Deep Tech Commercialization)
The course concentrates on the preparation of business plans, methods for evaluating and screening new venture ideas, formulation and implementation of business strategies for new ventures, and the financing of new ventures. The course will also focus on identifying, examining, and evaluating various sources of original and growth capital. Emphasis will be on legal, financial, and tax issues related to capital formation as well as specific problems experienced by the entrepreneur in the high technology space. Topics discussed will include venture valuation, financing startups, financial planning and strategy.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Donald DeLoach ~ F from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Ed Kaplan Family Institute 107-1 (add to cart)

MBA 590: Digital Transformation
Designed for leaders focused on implementing new ideas, staying ahead of the competition and aligning their people, data and technology to drive digital transformation. First, we discuss the pace of change, and its impact, implications and opportunities. Next, we provide the context and framework to help you identify key areas to digitize, including strategy, core processes, and technology. The course culminates with a project where participants create an action plan for a challenge at a level that is appropriate for their role or responsibility. After completing the course, students will learn how to build a digital transformation vision, skills and leadership qualities key for the 21st century executive.
Spring 2025: 457 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Marian Cook (add to cart)

MBA 597: Independent Study in Business Administration
Independent study in business administration.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Elizabeth Durango-Cohen (add to cart)

MBA 706: Innovation and International Strategy
In this course, you will learn about Innovation and International Strategies. The course is made up of 5 modules. Modules 1 through 3 cover innovation strategies including topics like technology adoption life cycle, the product life cycle, disruptive innovation and blue ocean strategy. In Modules 4 and 5, you will learn how companies expand into international markets and compete there. You will learn about how companies make decisions like the rationale for going international, international market selection, entry strategies and the different types of international strategies. You will learn how successful companies compete globally and outperform their competitors.
Spring 2025: 443 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ M Krishna Erramilli (add to cart)

MBA 707: Business Economics and Game Theory for Decision Making
Good decision making and strategy do not exist in isolation: the success and profitability of a business depends not only on its own strategic moves but also those that other firms make, especially competitors. Understanding the strategic linkages among firms can therefore be immensely valuable. Economics and Game theory offer tools that can specifically enhance one's understanding and ability to exploit such strategic linkages. This course will layer game-theoretic considerations on top of economic considerations in the marketplace. In doing so, we will identify the key actors, their objectives, potential actions, and predicted outcomes, as well as ways to strengthen the position of a business in the market. We will also demonstrate when to expect governments to intervene in markets, either because markets may have failed or because the government may have been persuaded to intervene by key stakeholders.
Spring 2025: 437 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Priyanka Sharma (add to cart)

MBA 708: A Comprehensive Excel Masterclass: Unleashing Business Potential
The Comprehensive Excel Masterclass is designed to provide participants with advanced skills in Excel, focusing specifically on leveraging Excel dashboards to effectively display key performance indicators (KPIs) and support data-driven decision-making. The course combines theoretical concepts with practical exercises and examples to reinforce learning. The course begins by introducing participants to essential finance skills related to loans, project budgeting, and planning. A significant portion of the course is dedicated to Excel dashboards, which are effective tools for visually presenting performance data (KPIs). Participants will learn how to create compelling dashboards using advanced Excel features while engaging in hands-on exercises. They will explore techniques for data visualization, creating interactive charts, and incorporating dynamic elements into their dashboards. Note: This course assumes a basic understanding of Excel functionalities such as creating formulas, working with worksheets, and basic data manipulation.
Spring 2025: 454 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Elizabeth Durango-Cohen (add to cart)

MILS 102: Basic Leadership
Establishes foundation of basic leadership fundamentals such as problem solving, communications, briefings and effective writing, goal setting techniques for improving listening and speaking skills, and an introduction to counseling.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Andre Hernandez ~ W from 9 AM to 9:50 AM in IIT Tower 15F6-2 (add to cart)

MILS 148: Aerobic Conditioning
Participation in aerobic exercise program; evaluation of the level of cardiovascular fitness.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Andre Hernandez ~ TWF from 6:15 AM to 7:15 AM in IIT Tower 15F6-2 (add to cart)

MILS 202: Leadership and Teamwork
Study examines how to build successful teams, various methods for influencing action, effective communication in setting and achieving goals, the importance of timing the decision, creativity in the problem solving process, and obtaining team buy-in through immediate feedback.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Andre Hernandez ~ TR from 12:50 PM to 1:40 PM in IIT Tower 15F6-2 (add to cart)

MILS 248: Aerobic Conditioning
Participation in aerobic exercise program; evaluation of the level of cardiovascular fitness.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Andre Hernandez ~ TWF from 6:15 AM to 7:15 AM in IIT Tower 15F6-2 (add to cart)

MILS 302: Leadership and Ethics
Examines the role communications, values, and ethics play in effective leadership. Topics include ethical decision-making, consideration of others, spirituality in the military, and survey Army leadership doctrine. Emphasis on improving oral and written communication abilities.
Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Andre Hernandez ~ T from 7:50 AM to 10:45 AM in IIT Tower 15F6-2 (add to cart)

MILS 348: Aerobic Conditioning
Participation in aerobic exercise program; evaluation of the level of cardiovascular fitness.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Andre Hernandez ~ TWF from 6:15 AM to 7:15 AM in IIT Tower 15F6-2 (add to cart)

MILS 402: Officership
Study includes case study analysis of military law and practical exercises on establishing an ethical command climate. Students must complete a semester long Senior Leadership Project that requires them to plan, organize, collaborate, analyze, and demonstrate their leadership skills.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Andre Hernandez ~ F from 7:50 AM to 10:45 AM in IIT Tower 15F6-1 (add to cart)

MILS 448: Aerobic Conditioning
Participation in aerobic exercise program; evaluation of the level of cardiovascular fitness.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lab (Class) ~ Andre Hernandez ~ TWF from 6:15 AM to 7:15 AM in IIT Tower 15F6-2 (add to cart)

MMAE 202: Mechanics of Solids
Newton’s law. Force and moment balance in vector form. Free body diagrams. Trusses. Distributed loads including fluid statics. Loads on a beam, shear force and bending moment diagrams. Stress, strain, and Hooke’s law. Thermal stresses. Internal shear and normal stresses in a beam. Shear stress and torsion. Friction (screws, belts). Computational methods in mechanics.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sayed Saghaian ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 240 (add to cart)

MMAE 232: Design for Innovation
Design and development of mechanical systems. The design process, isometric sketching, engineering drawings, CAD, sustainable design, whole-system design and lifecycle thinking, design for product lifetime, lightweighting, technical writing, bio-inspired design process, mechanism and linkage design, actuators, and engineering and law. Team-based design and build projects focusing on sustainable design techniques, bio-inspired locomotion, and mechatronics.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Cesarone ~ M from 10 AM to 10:50 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

MMAE 304: Mechanics of Aerostructures
Loads on aircraft and flight envelopes. Singularity functions in bending moment and deflection of beams. Stress, strain and constitutive relations. Stress-transformation in 2 and 3D (from the perspective of matrix rotation, eigenvalues) and Mohr circle. Energy methods. Castigliano’s theorems. Torsion of open, closed and multi-cell tubes. Structural instability. Stress concentration factors and stress intensity factors. Cracks in 3 modes. Fatigue and cumulative damage.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Bernhardt ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Stuart Building 113 (add to cart)

MMAE 305: Dynamics
Kinematics of particles. Kinetics of particles. Newton's laws of motion, energy; momentum. Systems of particles. Kinematics of rigid bodies. Plane motion of rigid bodies: forces and accelerations, energy, momentum.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ankit Srivastava ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 113 (add to cart)

MMAE 313: Fluid Mechanics
Basic properties of fluids in motion. Langrangian and Eulerian viewpoints, materials derivative, streamlines, etc. Continuity, energy, and linear and angular momentum equations in integral and differential forms. Integration of equations for one-dimensional forms and application to problems. Incompressible viscous flow; Navier-Stokes equations, parallel flow, pipe flow, and the Moody diagram. Introduction to laminar and turbulent boundary layers and free surface flows.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yang Zhang ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 113 (add to cart)

MMAE 319: Mechanical Laboratory I
Basic skills for engineering research are taught, which include: analog electronic circuit analysis; fundamentals of digital data acquisition; measurements of pressure, temperature, flow rate, heat transfer, and static forces and moments; and statistical date analysis.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Bernhardt ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

MMAE 320: Thermodynamics
Introduction to thermodynamics including properties of matter; First Law of Thermodynamics and its use in analyzing open and closed systems; limitations of the Second Law of Thermodynamics; entropy.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Francisco Ruiz ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 104 (add to cart)

MMAE 321: Applied Thermodynamics
Analysis of thermodynamic systems including energy analysis; analysis and design of power and refrigeration cycles; gas mixtures and chemically reacting systems; chemical equilibrium; combustion and fuel cells.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Carrie Hall ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

MMAE 323: Heat and Mass Transfer
Basic laws of transport phenomena, including: steady-state heat conduction; multi-dimensional and transient conduction; forced internal and external convection; natural convection; heat exchanger design and analysis; fundamental concepts of radiation; shape factors and network analysis; diffusive and convective mass transfer; phase change, condensation and boiling.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Aleksandar Ostrogorsky ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 113 (add to cart)

MMAE 332: Design of Machine Elements
Students will gain an understanding of the analysis of basic elements used in machine design. These include the characteristics of gears, gear trains, bearings, shafts, keys, mechanical springs, brakes and clutches, and flexible elements.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Murat Vural ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 258 (add to cart)

MMAE 350: Computational Mechanics
Explores the use of numerical methods to solve engineering problems in solid mechanics, fluid mechanics and heat transfer. Topics include matrix algebra, nonlinear equations of one variable, systems of linear algebraic equations, nonlinear equations of several variables, classification of partial differential equations in engineering, the finite difference method, and the finite element method. Same a MATH 350.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Hossein Khodavirdi ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

MMAE 352: Aerospace Propulsion
Analysis and performance of various jet and rocket propulsive devices. Foundations of propulsion theory. Design and analysis of inlets, compressors, combustion chambers, and other elements of propulsive devices. Emphasis is placed on mobile power plants for aerospace applications.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Bernhardt ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 104 (add to cart)

MMAE 372: Aerospace Materials Lab
Mechanical behavior and microstructural characterization of aerospace materials including advanced metal alloys, polymers, ceramics, and composites. Introduction to mechanical testing techniques for assessing the properties and performance of aerospace materials. Evaluation of structural performance in terms of materials selection, processing, service conditions, and design.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Heng Wang ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

MMAE 412: Spacecraft Design I
Spacecraft systems design including real world mission analysis and orbit design, system engineering, launch vehicle requirements, attitude determination and control, propulsion, structural design, power systems thermal management, and telecommunications. Semester-long project is focused on the integration of multiple systems into a coherent spacecraft system to achieve specific mission requirements.(1-6-3)
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Geza Gyuk ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 152 (add to cart)

MMAE 415: Aerospace Laboratory II
Advanced skills for engineering research are taught, which include experiments with digital electronic circuit analysis, dynamic data acquisition techniques, fundamentals of fluid power system design, GPS and inertial guidance systems, air-breathing propulsion, and fly-by-wire control.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ David Williams ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

MMAE 432: Design of Mechanical Systems
Capstone design courses taken during the senior year. At the end of this course, students should have a good grasp of the design process and how to integrate design with the analysis taught in previous courses. The course serves as a guide to transferring the skills that the students learned in the classroom into becoming an engineer in industry or a graduate student in the field. The focus of the class will be a team-based project conceptualized and developed by the students.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Matthew Spenko ~ T from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Stuart Building 111 (add to cart)

MMAE 433: Design of Thermal Systems
Application of principles of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, and thermodynamics to design of components of engineering systems. Examples are drawn from power generation, environmental control, air and ground transportation, and industrial processes, as well as other industries. Groups of students work on projects for integration of these components and design of thermal systems.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Francisco Ruiz ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Wishnick Hall 116 (add to cart)

MMAE 443: Systems Analysis and Control
Mathematical modeling of dynamic systems; linearization. Laplace transform; transfer functions; transient and steady-state response. Feedback control of single-input, single-output systems. Routh stability criterion. Root-locus method for control system design. Frequency-response methods; Bode plots; Nyquist stability criterion.
Spring 2025: 24 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nelson Rosa ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 025 (add to cart)

MMAE 445: Computer-Aided Design and Manufacturing
Explores the principles of blueprints, geometric & dimensional tolerancing, parametric modeling (curve, surface, solid, mesh), mechanical assemblies, finite element analysis (FEA) studies, and design optimization (DFMA) using computer aided design (CAD) software. In addition to the applications of numerical controller programming (G-Code), toolpath generation, and machine simulation using computer aided manufacturing (CAM) software.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicholas Villani ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 112F (add to cart)

MMAE 453: Electrified Vehicle Powertrains
This course provides insight into the electrified propulsion systems for automobiles (including plug-in electric and hybrid-electric vehicles). Students will receive the tools and practical understanding required to analyze a variety of vehicle powertrain architectures and predict the vehicle energy consumption and performance. This course will explore the power and energy requirements of driving, provide students with an understanding of the working principles of internal combustion engines, electric motors, and batteries and explore how engineers combine them to maximize efficiency and performance. Students will apply the analytical tools presented in the course to extensive test datasets from Argonne National Laboratory in order to study topics such as vehicle loads, emissions control, vehicle efficiency, the impact of electrification and future challenges in the transportation sector.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Duoba, Jorge Pulpeiro Gonzalez ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 152 (add to cart)

MMAE 463: Structure and Properties of Materials II
Continuation of MMAE 365. Solidification structures, diffusional and diffusionless transformations. Structure-property relationships in commercial materials.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Amir Mostafaei ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 026 (add to cart)

MMAE 465: Electrical, Magnetic, and Optical Properties of Materials
Electronic structure of solids, semiconductor devices and their fabrication. Ferroelectric and piezoelectric materials. Magnetic properties, magnetocrystalline anisotropy, magnetic materials and devices. Optical properties and their applications, generation and use of polarized light. Same as PHYS 465.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Heng Wang ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 122 (add to cart)

MMAE 472: Advanced Aerospace Materials
Principles of materials and process selection for minimum weight design in aerospace applications. Advanced structural materials of polymer matrix composites for aircraft fuselage and ceramics/ceramic matrix composites for propulsion applications. Materials for space vehicles and satellites. Environmental degradation in aerospace materials.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Leon Shaw ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 204 (add to cart)

MMAE 491: Undergraduate Research
Student undertakes an independent research project under the guidance of an MMAE faculty member. Requires the approval of the MMAE Department Undergraduate Studies Committee.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 6 sections)

MMAE 494: Undergraduate Design Project
Student undertakes an independent design project under the guidance of an MMAE faculty member. Requires the approval of the MMAE Department Undergraduate Studies Committee.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

MMAE 497: Undergraduate Special Topics
Special individual design project, study, or report as defined by a faculty member of the department. Requires junior or senior standing and written consent of both academic advisor and course instructor.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 7 sections)

MMAE 500: Data Driven Modeling
This graduate level course focuses on state of the art techniques in data driven modeling. The course introduces relevant aspects of probability theory, optimization, and the basics of machine learning and deep learning. The course surveys a variety of modeling and learning methodologies and algorithms, such as modern neural network architectures, modal decompositions, identification of linear and nonlinear dynamics, and other advanced topics in data driven modeling. The emphasis will be squarely on the application of modern data driven modeling tools to advanced engineering problems related to solid and fluid mechanics, dynamics, and controls.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Scott Dawson ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Hermann Hall 005 (add to cart)

MMAE 512: Dynamics of Viscous Fluids
Navier-Stokes equations and some simple exact solutions. Oseen-Stokes flows. Boundary-layer equations and their physical interpretations. Flows along walls, and in channels. Jets and wakes. Separation and transition to turbulence. Boundary layers in unsteady flows. Thermal and compressible boundary layers. Mathematical techniques of similarity transformation, regular and singular perturbation, and finite differences.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Hassan Nagib ~ TR from 1:25 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

MMAE 517: Computational Fluid Dynamics
Classification of partial differential equations. Finite-difference methods. Numerical solution techniques including direct, iterative, and multigrid methods for general elliptic and parabolic differential equations. Numerical algorithms for solution of the Navier-Stokes equations in the primitive-variables and vorticity-stream function formulations. Grids and grid generation. Numerical modeling of turbulent flows. Additional Prerequisite: An undergraduate course in numerical methods.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Aleksandr Obabko ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

MMAE 525: Fundamentals of Heat Transfer
Modes and fundamental laws of heat transfer. The heat equations and their initial and boundary conditions. Conduction problems solved by separation of variables. Numerical methods in conduction. Forced and natural convection in channels and over exterior surfaces. Similarity and dimensionless parameters. Heat and mass analogy. Effects of turbulence. Boiling and condensation. Radiation processes and properties. Blackbody and gray surfaces radiation. Shape factors. Radiation shields.
Prerequisite: An undergraduate course in heat transfer.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Aleksandar Ostrogorsky ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 201 (add to cart)

MMAE 541: Advanced Dynamics
Kinematics of rigid bodies. Rotating reference frames and coordinate transformations; Inertia dyadic. Newton-Euler equations of motion. Gyroscopic motion. Conservative forces and potential functions. Generalized coordinates and generalized forces. Lagrange's equations. Holonomic and nonholonomic constraints. Lagrange multipliers. Kane's equations. Elements of orbital and spacecraft dynamics. Additional Prerequisite: An undergraduate course in dynamics.
Spring 2025: 21 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Seebany Datta-Barua ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

MMAE 545: Advanced CAD/CAM
Interactive computer graphics in mechanical engineering design and manufacturing. Mathematics of three-dimensional object and curved surface representations. Surface versus solid modeling methods. Numerical control of machine tools and factory automation. Applications using commercial CAD/CAM in design projects. MMAE 445 (with min. grade of C)/equivalent or instructor consent as prerequisite of MMAE545.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sayed Saghaian ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

MMAE 547: Computer-Integrated Manufacturing Technologies
The use of computer systems in planning and controlling the manufacturing process including product design, production planning, production control, production processes, quality control, production equipment and plant facilities. Prerequisite: Undergraduate engineering degree or concurrent enrollment in undergraduate engineering program or consent of instructor.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Cesarone ~ MW from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

MMAE 550: Optimal State Estimation
Probability and random variables. Stochastic dynamic systems. Kalman filters, information forms, and smoothers. Covariance analysis. Bayesian, adaptive, and nonlinear estimation. Detection theory. Applications to guidance, navigation, and control systems.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Boris Pervan ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 242 (add to cart)

MMAE 554: Electrical, Magnetic and Optical Properties of Materials
Electronic structure of solids. Conductors, semiconductors, dielectrics, superconductors. Ferroelectric and piezoelectric materials. Magnetic properties, magnetocrystalline, anisotropy, magnetic materials and devices. Optical properties and their applications.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Heng Wang ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 122 (add to cart)

MMAE 560: Statistical Quality and Process Control
Basic theory, methods and techniques of on-line, feedback quality control systems for variable and attribute characteristics. Methods for improving the parameters of the production, diagnosis, and adjustment processes so that quality loss is minimized. Same as CHE 560. Prerequisite: Undergraduate engineering degree or concurrent enrollment in undergraduate engineering program or consent of instructor.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Cesarone ~ MW from 6:25 PM to 7:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

MMAE 588: Additive Manufacturing
This course examines the fundamentals of a variety of additive manufacturing processes as well as design for additive manufacturing, materials available, and properties and limitations of materials and designs. It also examines the economics of additive manufacturing as compared to traditional subtractive manufacturing and other traditional techniques. Additive techniques discussed include 3D printing, selective laser sintering, stereo lithography, multi-jet modeling, laminated object manufacturing, and others. Advantages and limitations of all current additive technologies are examined as well as criteria for process selection. Processes for metals, polymers, and ceramics are covered. Other topics include software tools and connections between design and production, direct tooling, and direct manufacturing. Current research trends are discussed.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Amir Mostafaei ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 241 (add to cart)

MMAE 591: Research and Thesis M.S.

Spring 2025: Class (show all 7 sections)

MMAE 593: MMAE Seminar
Reports on current research. Full-time graduate students in the department are expected to register and attend.
Spring 2025: 77 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Heng Wang ~ W from 12:45 PM to 1:45 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 104 (add to cart)

MMAE 594: Project for Master of Engineering Students
Design projects for the master of mechanical and aerospace engineering, master of materials engineering, and master of manufacturing engineering degrees.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 7 sections)

MMAE 597: Special Topics
Advanced topic in the fields of mechanics, mechanical and aerospace, metallurgical and materials, and manufacturing engineering in which there is special student and staff interest. (Variable credit)
Spring 2025: Class (show all 12 sections)

MMAE 691: Research and Thesis Ph.D.

Spring 2025: Class (show all 8 sections)

MS 201: Materials Science
The scientific principles determining the structure of metallic, polymeric, ceramic, semiconductor and composite materials; electronic structure, atomic bonding, atomic structure, microstructure and macrostructure. The basic principles of structure-property relationships in the context of chemical, mechanical and physical properties of materials.
Spring 2025: 18 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sayed Saghaian ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Hermann Hall 002 (add to cart)

MSC 514: Mathematical Economics II - Microeconomics and Macroeconomics
This is the second course in the two-course sequence in mathematical economics. It focuses on optimization problems in addition to discussing nonlinear programming, Kuhn-Tucker conditions, and dynamic analysis. In addition, it continues discussion on game theory and explores its use in modern economics and business through examinations of classic and current papers. Students are also introduced to models used in modern macroeconomics.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Priyanka Sharma ~ M from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 409 (add to cart)

MSC 515: Econometrics and Statistics II
The course introduces Bayesian estimation, and emphasizes simulation-based inference, statistical computing, discrete choice, limited dependent variables (truncation, censoring and sample selection), time series analysis including advanced forecasting techniques. This course intends to integrate modern theories and empirical applications in a manner that many useful tools will be discussed. The course is heavily project oriented and is organized around Big Data applications and statistical packages. Students will be expected to work with modern statistical packages and large datasets.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Haizhi Wang ~ T from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 490 (add to cart)

MSC 612: Advanced Research Methods
This course is a required course for all PhD students at the Stuart School of Business. It offers a comprehensive overview of the General Linear Model at both univariate and multivariate research levels. The course will review measurement issues (reliability, types of validity), multiple regression analysis, ANOVA, MANOVA, step-down analysis, factor analysis, structural equation models (exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis), discriminant analysis, redundancy analysis, canonical correlation analysis, repeated measures analysis, categorical data analysis, contingent valuation method, conjoint analysis, cluster analysis, multidimensional scaling, correspondence analysis, choice models, and relatively new areas such as multi-level analysis, meta-analysis, data warehousing, data mining, and neural networks. Additionally, nonlinear models will also be discussed. Students will be introduced to SAS and other software packages.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Siva Balasubramanian ~ W from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 401 (add to cart)

MSC 613: Structured Fixed Income Portfolios
This course will cover the characteristics, valuation and risk management of fixed income instruments. These instruments include bonds, repos, interest rate derivatives, inflation indexed securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, CDOs and default swaps. The focus will be on understanding how these instruments are structured and used. Term structure modeling and hedging techniques will be presented, with a minimum of mathematics.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ricky Cooper, Bruce Rawlings ~ S from 10 AM to 12:30 PM in Downtown Campus 401 (add to cart)

MSC 616: Social Media Marketing Analytics

Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Bruno Castelo Branco ~ W from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 475 (add to cart)

MSC 623: Investments
The world of investments is changing rapidly as investment responsibilities and power move into the hands of individuals. This course discuss the properties of investment instruments, different investment theories, and the professional investors. Topics include the characteristics of various financial assets, the time series and cross sectional of returns, asset pricing theory and empirical methods, mutual funds and hedge funds. Moreover, there is a reading list of the most influential academic papers in the investment field, students are required to understand and follow the most advanced development in the investment field.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Marat Molyboga ~ T from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 409 (add to cart)

MSC 633: Theory of Finance II
This course is intended as an in depth review of the following areas of finance: (1) continuous time risk neutral pricing; (2) jump diffusion models; (3) continuous time utility optimization modeling (with dynamic programming); (4) consumption CAPM modeling; (5) non-time seperable utility modeling; and (6) behavioral finance.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Seung Youn Cha ~ F from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 409 (add to cart)

MSC 653: Current Topics in Marketing Analytics
The focus of this course would be to stay up-to-date with cutting edge academic research in the field of marketing analytics. Students will read and implement quantitative models to optimize marketing predictions. Students would need to be reasonably well-versed in a variety of analytics approaches coming in and capable of learning new methods that appear in the literature through interaction with large data sets. The emphasis would be on critical discussion of cutting-edge marketing analytics techniques and application, self-study of methods and current digital platforms to keep pace with trends and breakthroughs in the field, and research idea generation.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Andrew Kumiega ~ M from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 409 (add to cart)

MSC 655: Visual Analytics - Data Analytics & Visualization
This course has the following objectives: (a) to teach students the link between analytics and business value; (b) to expose students to techniques useful to for visualizing and for drawing insights from complex data; (c) to introduce methods for both gaining insights from historical data (descriptive data mining) and predicting possible future outcomes (predictive data mining); (d) to enable students to use decision analysis to develop an optimal strategy when faced with several decision alternatives given risk-preferences and uncertain event outcomes; and (e) to improve students' critical thinking skills.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Elizabeth Durango-Cohen ~ R from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 405 (add to cart)

MSC 691: Research and Thesis PhD

Spring 2025: Class (show all 6 sections)

MSF 501: Mathematics with Financial Applications
This course provides a systematic exposition of the primary mathematical methods used in finance and the financial markets. Mathematical concepts and methods discussed are precalculus, calculus, and probability and statistics. Applications include simple and compound interest, annuities and mortgages, forward and futures contracts, bond pricing and duration and convexity, option pricing and strategies, solution of equations of value, optimization, volatility, elementary portfolio theory, Black Scholes option pricing, Binomial Option Pricing, and statistical inference. The learning method includes doing problems in class, quizzes, Final Exam, films, supplementary reading of relevant articles.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Modica ~ F from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 475 (add to cart)

MSF 502: Statistical Analysis in Financial Markets
Statistics is very important and useful for the analysis of financial markets, especially in today’s financial world of large data. This course has three sections. The first section reviews the basics of statistics, including Tabular and Graphical tools, Descriptive Statistics, Exploratory Data, and Probability Distributions. The second section turns to the theory and methods of Statistical Inference. It explains Sampling Theory, Estimation, and Hypothesis Testing. The third section puts emphasis on Variance Analysis and Regression Analysis, a widely used statistical technique in finance. To emphasize the applications of statistics in financial market, during lectures I would regularly 1) explain statistical results presented in financial news and articles, 2) demonstrate the usage of financial data in statistical analysis, 3) emphasize statistical techniques that have broad financial applications Students are expected to understand as much science of the subject as possible without sacrificing learning its applications in finance.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Li Cai ~ T from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 485 (add to cart)

MSF 503: Financial Modeling
Modeling using databases and python programming is ubiquitous in the modern financial industry and business in general. In this course, students will learn how to implement quantitative models using Microsoft Excel, SQL, and Python. Models will include those statistical methods, time series, and valuation models most widely used in industry. Numerical techniques including Monte Carlo simulation, optimization, and root-finding will also be covered. Particular attention will also be paid to project management and testing.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Benjamin Van Vliet ~ M from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 490 (add to cart)

MSF 504: Valuation and Portfolio Management
The course is a survey of asset pricing theory. The fundamentals of bond and option pricing are covered as well as the CAPM, APT, and the Fama-French models. Excel spreadsheet modeling is used to illustrate and understand the concepts of Markowitz's Mean Variance Optimization, equity valuation, option pricing, and utility theory. The course places a special emphasis on the relationship between macroeconomic conditions and investment opportunities.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Seung Youn Cha ~ W from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 470 (add to cart)

MSF 505: Futures, Options, and OTC Derivatives
This three-credit foundation course, mainly for Master of Science in Finance (MSF) students, will examine the mechanism, pricing, trading, and risk management of financial derivatives. Specifically, the students will learn options, forwards, futures contracts, swaps, OTC derivatives, arbitrage-free pricing, risk-neutral pricing, binomial trees, the Black-Scholes-Merton approach, and the Monte Carlo simulation for derivatives pricing. Numerical examples in this course are paper-and-pencil-based, spreadsheet-based, or Python-based. Students will implement a simple derivatives trading strategy using trading software. At the end of the semester, a student should know the mechanism, terminologies, and basic properties of futures, options, and OTC Derivatives; be able to implement speculative, hedging, and arbitrage trading strategies using futures and options; be able to determine a price of futures/forward, options, and OTC Derivatives using non-arbitrage arguments, option bounds, a binomial model, Black-Scholes-Merton model, Monte Carlo Simulation, etc.; and understand dynamic delta hedging and other Greeks for financial risk management purposes.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Sang-Baum Kang ~ M from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 405 (add to cart)

MSF 506: Financial Statement Analysis
The primary objective of this course is for the student to develop his/her financial analysis skills. This course will focus on key accounting concepts, financial ratios, forecasting techniques and industry issues which are critical in interpreting and analyzing external financial reports. Additionally, advanced analysis skills will be introduced, which should enable the student to look beyond the numbers (presented in a GAAP/IFRS format) and ultimately obtain a more informed decision regarding the financial strength (value) of the company (security). Throughout this course students will be involved in “hands-on” financial analysis by working on class exercises/problems, discussing special topical readings and completing an assigned case.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Rybak ~ R from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 470 (add to cart)

MSF 525: Term Structure Modeling and Interest Rate Derivatives
Upon completion of this course, students should know the strengths, weaknesses, appropriate uses, and ways of implementing the major term structure models that are in common use. The course will begin with bootstrapping of forward curves, principal component analysis, and a review of basic fixed income derivatives (swaps, swaptions, caps, and floors). We will then implement short rate models, such as Ho-Lee, Black-Derman and Toy, and extended Vasicek/Hull-White, followed by the Helath-Jarrow-Morton model and market rate models. Students will implement these term structure models in Excel/VBA and Matlab.
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Tao Wu ~ R from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 401 (add to cart)

MSF 534: Corporate Finance
The primary objective of this course is for students to develop a strong understanding (and interest) of financial management related topics including: cost of capital, capital budgeting, capital structure decisions, working capital management, dividend payout policy, debt and equity financing, mergers & acquisitions, and corporate governance. Throughout this course, students will apply corporate finance topics to current company examples, which will be facilitated by class discussion, in-class exercises/problems, and assigned topic homework problems.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Michael Rybak ~ T from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 470 (add to cart)

MSF 545: Fixed Income Portfolio Management
This course will cover the characteristics, valuation and risk management of fixed income instruments. These instruments include bonds, repos, interest rate derivatives, inflation indexed securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, CDOs and default swaps. The focus will be on understanding how these instruments are structured and used. Term structure modeling and hedging techniques will be presented, with a minimum of mathematics.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ricky Cooper, Bruce Rawlings ~ S from 10 AM to 12:30 PM in Downtown Campus 401 (add to cart)

MSF 554: Market Risk Management
The course covers various issues related to investment and its risk management, including many statistical techniques around asset returns and asset volatilities. Chief among these is value-at-risk (VaR) analysis, which over the past 20 plus years has become established as the industry and regulatory standard in measuring market risk. Students are required to master spreadsheet modeling of risk models, as well as various backtesting procedures. When time allows, useful R packages and more real-life data examples are also presented, to expose students to a much larger set of quantitative tools.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Li Cai ~ M from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 470 (add to cart)

MSF 566: Time Series Analysis
This course introduces the econometric theory and practice of time series analysis, with an emphasis on practical skills. Students coming to the class should have some basic knowledge about statistics including hypothesis testing (t-test and F-test), correlation and regression analysis based on ordinary least square estimator. This course develops a portfolio of techniques for the analysis of time series data. This course covers difference equation, modeling with stationary time series, modelling with volatility (ARCH and GARCH), modelling with trend, unit root, and non-linear time series models. Students will be given access large database to practice the skills during the semester.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Haizhi Wang ~ R from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 490 (add to cart)

MSF 577: High Frequency Finance and Technology
High frequency trading is concerned with the development of robotic trading algorithms within a real time market environment. This course will be concerned with the development of high frequency models and the assessment of their performance.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Benjamin Van Vliet ~ W from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 490 (add to cart)

MSF 597: Independent Study in Finance
MSF 597 Independent Study allows students to undertake research projects under the supervision of a full time faculty member.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Andrew Kumiega (add to cart)

NS 102: Naval Ships Systems I (Engineering)
Students learn detailed ship design, hydrodynamic forces, stability, propulsion, electrical theory and distribution, hydraulic theory and ship control, and damage control. The course includes basic concepts of theory/design of steam, gas turbine, diesel, and nuclear propulsion. Case studies on leadership/ethical issues in the engineering arena are also covered. Not required for Nurse and Marine Corps options.)
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kasie Braun ~ R from 6 AM to 8:25 AM in IIT Tower 6D6-1 (add to cart)

NS 301: Navigation
In-depth study of the theory, principles, procedures, and application of plotting, piloting, and electronic navigation as well as an introduction to maneuvering boards. Students learn piloting techniques, the use of charts, the use of visual and electronic aids, and the theory of operation of both magnetic and gyrocompasses. Students develop practical skills in plotting and electronic navigation. Other topics include tides, currents, effects of wind/weather, voyage planning, and an application and introduction to the international/inland rules of navigation. The course is supplemented with a review/analysis of case studies involving moral/ethical/leadership issues pertaining to the concepts listed above. Not required for Nurse and Marice Corps options.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Darwin Chen ~ T from 6 AM to 8:25 AM in IIT Tower 6D6-1 (add to cart)

NS 310: Evolution of Warfare
Students trace the development of warfare to the present day. This course is designed to cover the causes of continuity and change in the means and methods of warfare. It addresses the influence of political, economic, and societal factors on the conduct of war with significant attention focused on the role of technological innovation in changing the battlefield. Students will explore the contribution of preeminent military theorists and battlefield commanders to our modern understanding of the art and science of war. Required for Marine option and MECEP students; optional for Navy students.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Andrew McGady ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in IIT Tower 15F6-1 (add to cart)

NS 402: Naval Leadership and Ethics
The course completes the final preparations of ensigns and second lieutenants for service in the Fleet and Marine Corps. The course integrates an intellectual exploration of Western moral traditions and ethical philosophy with a variety of topics such as the following: military leadership, core values, and professional ethics; the UCMJ and Navy regulations; and discussions relating to the roles of enlisted members, junior and senior officers, command relationships, and the conduct of warfare. The course provides midshipmen with a foundation of moral traditions combined with a discussion of actual current and historical events in the United States Navy and Marine Corps to prepare them for the role and responsibilities of leadership in the Naval Science of the 21st century.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Edwards ~ R from 6 AM to 8:25 AM in IIT Tower 15F6-1 (add to cart)

NS 499: Naval Science Laboratory
Topics deal with general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Andrew McGady ~ W from 7 AM to 8:30 AM in IIT Tower 6D6-1 (add to cart)

PA 502: Organizational Behavior
PA 502 builds awareness and understanding of the behavior of individuals and groups in organizations, preparing managers to be more effective within their organizational contexts. Topics include individual differences in motivation, perception, culture and learning style, group and organizational dynamics, and the impact of organizational structure and culture on behavior. Leadership techniques for influencing other organizational members, creative problem-solving and decision-making, ethics and values-based managing are covered. This course helps students relate basic theories, concepts, and techniques to real-world situations through the extensive use of case studies.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Roland Calia ~ M from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 475 (add to cart)

PA 522: Human Resource Management
This course focuses on human resource planning, recruitment, examination, and promotion of procedure. It familiarizes students with the key human resources management factors involved in supervising employees as well as collective bargaining, affirmative action, and employee productivity and performance evaluation. It is directed towards practical applications in dealing with these topics as managers and employees working in their teams or individually and covers employee professional responsibility and behavior. Students in this class will learn to utilize human resource planning, recruiting, interviewing and selection processes to improve organizational outcomes; analyze the legal/cultural aspects of personnel when making organizational decisions; identify the key components of performance management to improve themselves and their direct reports; develop specific solutions to solve critical workplace personnel issues; and apply a variety of motivation and team performance techniques in current and future organizational settings.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Arthur Malinowski ~ R from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 403 (add to cart)

PA 542: Project Management
The effective development, planning, execution, and communication of special projects are critical to all types of public service organizations and private sector organizations. Service organizations, healthcare providers, nonprofits, government organizations, and private sector organizations constantly pursue new initiatives and projects to address the demands of their constantly changing environments. This course will offer an introduction to basic concepts and methods for directing projects and will provide students with tools that prepare them for success in project management.

Examples in this course will be drawn from both the public and private sector. The course will be divided into the following components:

• Project Plan Definition (Purpose, Goals, Objectives, Expectations, Roles, and Quality Management, Approach and Ground Rules)
• Scope of the Project (Definition, Costs, Benefits, Risks, Products, Deliverables, Milestone, and Impacted Business Areas)
• Assumptions (Specific and Measurable)
• Constraints (Limitations to the Project, Related Projects, Critical Dependencies)
• Quality Management Approach (Activity Reviews/Walkthroughs, Tools and Techniques, Test Approach, Performance/Quality Standards, Quality Management Roles, and Training)
• Project Management Approach (Work Breakdown, Basis of Estimates, Project Effort Estimation, Project Standards, Project Roles and Responsibilities, Change and Issues Management Approach, Communication and Control Approach)
• Attachments (Any pertinent work, flow charts, and approvals that need to be added to flesh out the project)
• Project Budget
• Project Impact Report
• Approvals (Sign-off sheets)
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Joanne Howard ~ MW from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 485 (add to cart)

PA 568: Optimization in Policy and Administration
This course is a strategy, competitiveness, and leadership laboratory for public sector managers and leaders of the 21st century. Students will gain an understanding of IIT Stuart's unique core concept of strategic competitiveness as well as frameworks from theories of entrepreneurial government, strategic management, and economic competitiveness. Students will critically analyze conventional frameworks for relevance to various contexts across the public sector in the rapidly changing Next Economy. Cases discussing the public sector's efforts to transform its management processes to meet the challenges of the Next Economy and to successfully interact with the business community are emphasized. The course employs a dynamic classroom environment using case method, class discussions, and group projects. Students will appreciate the challenges, complexities, and characteristics needed to effectively lead and be successful in the competitive global economy by delving into questions such as: How do countries, regions, states, and cities compete in the global economy? How do public leaders create innovative economic development strategies by influencing firms' strategic decisions regarding investment and trade? How can public leaders enhance the competitiveness of their business environment by adopting entrepreneurial government strategies? What are best practices for economic development in the Next Economy?
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Roland Calia ~ W from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 409 (add to cart)

PA 581: Policy Economic Modeling and Design
This course considers methods that help design effective Public Policy Design by presenting and examining practical, cost-effective techniques that can be used to make better decisions regarding the allocation of scarce resources. Includes problem identification, goal development, data needs and collection, generation of alternative solutions, projecting impacts, goals-oriented evaluation, and strategies for implementation.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Wenchen Wang ~ T from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 403 (add to cart)

PA 597: Special Problems
The subject matter of this course will vary with the interests and the background of the students and the instructor, and the course may be taken more than once. Instructor permission is required.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Roland Calia (add to cart)

PHIL 306: Rationality and Science Policy
A realistic, evidence-based look at the powers and challenges in making science policy, looking at such topics as group polarization, conspiracy theories, deference to experts and “judging from the gut”. Our goal is to identify the reasoning skills and knowledge necessary in order for citizens and political officials to reason reliably about scientific matters.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ J.D. Trout (add to cart)

PHIL 308: Philosophy and Psychology of Language
A richly illustrated examination of the evidence for the nature and origin of language, from both philosophical and psychological perspectives. The course will cover such topics as animal communication, reference, the nature of meaning, and the biological basis of language.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ J.D. Trout (add to cart)

PHIL 380: Topics in Philosophy
An investigation into a topic of current interest in philosophy; which will be announced by the instructor when the course is scheduled.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Clarissa Busch ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Siegel Hall 203 (add to cart)

PHIL 381: Artificial Intelligence, Philosophy and Ethics
In the course, we will discuss philosophical and ethical questions related to artificial intelligence (AI) and reflect about possible future developments. The course gives an introduction to the way ethical arguments, concepts and principles are used in debates relating to AI and robots.
Topics to be discussed include: What is artificial intelligence? What is the role of algorithmic bias in hiring processes and facial recognition? What would it mean for AI to have capabilities like sentience, emotions, consciousness, or a mind? What are good rules for decision-making in self-driving cars? How do we perceive and talk about AI and robots? What is the moral and legal status of robots?
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Elisabeth Hildt ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in TBA (add to cart)

PHIL 580: Topics in Philosophy
An investigation into a topic of current or enduring interest in philosophy, which will be announced by the instructor when the course is scheduled. Graduate standing required.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ J.D. Trout (add to cart)

PHIL 581: Artificial Intelligence, Philosophy and Ethics
In the course, we will discuss philosophical and ethical questions related to artificial intelligence (AI) and reflect about possible future developments. The course gives an introduction to the way ethical arguments, concepts and principles are used in debates relating to AI and robots.
Topics to be discussed include: What is artificial intelligence? What is the role of algorithmic bias in hiring processes and facial recognition? What would it mean for AI to have capabilities like sentience, emotions, consciousness, or a mind? What are good rules for decision-making in self-driving cars? How do we perceive and talk about AI and robots? What is the moral and legal status of robots?
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Elisabeth Hildt ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in TBA (add to cart)

PHYS 123: General Physics I: Mechanics
Vectors and motion in one, two and three dimensions. Newton's Laws. Particle dynamics, work and energy. Conservation laws and collisions. Rotational kinematics and dynamics, angular momentum and equilibrium of rigid bodies. Gravitation. Oscillations.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 15 sections) …

PHYS 221: General Physics II: Electricity and Magnetism
Waves charge, electric field, Gauss' Law and potential. Capacitance, resistance, simple a/c and d/c circuits. Magnetic fields, Ampere's Law, Faraday's Law, induction, and Maxwell's equations. Traveling waves, electromagnetic waves, and light.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 6 sections)

PHYS 223: General Physics III
Sound, fluid mechanics and elasticity. Temperature, first and second laws of thermodynamics, kinetic theory and entropy. Reflection, refraction, interference and diffraction. Special relativity. Quantization of light, charge and energy.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Zasadzinski ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 121 (add to cart)

PHYS 224: General Physics III for Engineers
Sound and fluid mechanics. Temperature, first and second laws of thermodynamics, kinetic theory and entropy. Reflection, refraction, interference and diffraction. Special relativity. Light and quantum physics, structure of the hydrogen atom. Atomic physics, electrical conduction in solids, nuclear physics, particle physics and cosmology.
Spring 2025: 30 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ John Zasadzinski ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 121 (add to cart)

PHYS 240: Computational Science
This course provides an overview of introductory general physics in a computer laboratory setting. Euler-Newton method for solving differential equations, the trapezoidal rule for numerical quadrature and simple applications of random number generators. Computational projects include the study of periodic and chaotic motion, the motion of falling bodies and projectiles with air resistance, conservation of energy in mechanical and electrical systems, satellite motion, using random numbers to simulate radioactivity, the Monte Carlo method, and classical physical models for the hydrogen molecule and the helium atom.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Yagmur Torun ~ TR from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 112 ~ T from 5 PM to 6:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 112 (add to cart)

PHYS 304: Thermodynamics and Statistical Physics
Statistical basis of thermodynamics, including kinetic theory, fundamentals of statistical mechanics, fluctuations and noise, transport phenomena and the Boltzmann equation. Thermodynamic functions and their applications, first and second laws of thermodynamics.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jeffery Wereszczynski ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 034 (add to cart)

PHYS 309: Classical Mechanics II
Newton's Laws, one dimensional motion, vector methods, kinematics, dynamics, conservation laws, and the Kepler problem. Collisions, systems of particles, and rigid-body motion. Approximation technique, Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulations of classical mechanics, small oscillations.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Grant Bunker ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 027 (add to cart)

PHYS 360: Introduction to Astrophysics
This course provides an overview of astrophysics and introduces the student to the many conventions, units, coordinate systems, and nomenclature used in astrophysics. The course will survey observational, stellar, and extragalactic astrophysics as well as cosmology. The course will also include planetary astronomy including extrasolar planets.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Gon Halevi ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 103 (add to cart)

PHYS 361: Observational Astrophysics
This lecture/lab class covers the basics of multiwavelength observational astrophysics. Topics covered include statistical analysis techniques, multi-wavelength telescope design, instrument design (including CCDs, spectrographs and PMTs), and best practices applicable in different observational bands.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Emily Leiner ~ M from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 106 ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 112 (add to cart)

PHYS 403: Relativity
Introduction to the special and general theories of relativity. Lorentz covariance. Minkowski space. Maxwell's equations. Relativistic mechanics. General coordinate covariance, differential geometry, Riemann tensor, the gravitational field equations. Schwarzschild solution, astronomical and experimental tests, relativistic cosmological models.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yurii Shylnov ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 119 (add to cart)

PHYS 406: Fundamentals of Quantum Theory II
Zeeman and Stark Effects. Addition of spin and orbital angular momenta, the matrix representation of quantum mechanical operators, the physics of spin precession and nuclear magnetic resonance. Time independent and time dependent perturbation theory, Fermi's Golden Rule and the physics of radiation emitted in the course of atomic transitions. Indistinguishable particles in quantum mechanics, the helium atom. Scattering theory, using partial wave analysis and the Born approximation.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Greggory Springer ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 220 (add to cart)

PHYS 407: Introduction to Quantum Computing
An introductory course in quantum physics and quantum computing for non-physics majors suitable for upper division STEM majors and graduate students. Topics to be covered include quantum physics basics, types of physical qubit systems in current use, methods of qubit measurement, fault tolerance in quantum computing, and quantum algorithms including quantum teleportation, quantum cryptography, Deutch-Jozsa, Simon's, Bernstein-Vazirani, Grover, Shor, and quantum Fourier transforms. Course will include hands-on exercises with online quantum computing resources. Previous experience with linear algebra and complex numbers preferred.
Spring 2025: 19 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Carlo Segre ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

PHYS 414: Electromagnetism II
Propagation and generation of electromagnetic radiation. Antennas and waveguides. Maxwell's equations. Electromagnetic properties of materials. Classical electrodynamics; special relativity.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Rakshya Khatiwada ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 213 (add to cart)

PHYS 440: Computational Physics
Root finding using the Newton-Raphson method; interpolation using Cubic Splines and Least Square Fitting; solving ordinary differential equations using Runge-Kutta and partial differential equations using Finite Difference and Finite Element techniques; numerical quadrature using Simpson's Rule, Gaussian Quadrature and the Monte Carlo method; and spectral analysis using Fast Fourier Transforms. These techniques are applied to a wide range of physics problems such as finding the energy levels of a finite quantum well using a root finding technique, solving the Schrodinger equation using the Runge-Kutta-Fehlberg method, using random numbers to simulate stochastic processes such as a random walk, using the Fast Fourier Transform method to perform a spectral analysis on non-linear chaotic systems such as the Duffing oscillator, and using auto-correlation functions to simulate sonar or radar ranging problems.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Pavel Snopok ~ F from 11:15 AM to 12:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 112 ~ F from 12:45 PM to 2 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 112 (add to cart)

PHYS 485: Physics Colloquium
Lectures by prominent scientists. This course exposes students to current and active research in physics both within and outside the IIT community. It helps prepare students for a career in research. It is complementary to our academic courses and provides examples of professional/scientific presentations. This course may not be used to satisfy the natural science general education requirement.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Bryce Littlejohn ~ R from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

PHYS 491: Undergraduate Research
Recommendation of advisor and approval of the department chair. Student participation in undergraduate research, usually during the junior or senior year.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 6 sections)

PHYS 497: Special Topics in Physics
Special topics in physics.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Ali Khounsary (add to cart)

PHYS 502: Methods of Theoretical Physics II
Group theory. Discrete groups, elementary examples and properties. Lie groups, Lie algebras, generators. Their fundamental properties. Group representations. O(3), SU(2), SU(3), Lorentz groups and their applications. Complex variables: algebra, Cauchy-Riemann conditions, harmonic functions. Complex variables integrals: Cauchy theorem, Cauchy formula. Laurent series. Residues calculus: isolated singular points, poles, calculation of integrals using residues, other applications. Branches, singularities on the path of integration. Conformal mapping and its applications. Green functions. Their connection to complex variables calculus. Advanced, retarded, causal GF, application in physics. Integral equations.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yurii Shylnov ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Stuart Building 106 (add to cart)

PHYS 503: General Relativity
Lorentz transformations, Minkowski space, 4D vectors and tensors, kinematics and dynamics of special relativity. Riemann geometry, Christoffel symbols, covariant derivatives, geodesics, curvature tensor, Einstein equations. Classical experiments of general relativity, Schwarzschild solution, physics of black holes. Cosmology, Big Bang theory, gravitational waves. Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yurii Shylnov ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 119 (add to cart)

PHYS 505: Electromagnetic Theory
Special relativity, its kinematics and dynamics. Lorentz transformations. 4D tensors and their algebra. Covariant formulation of electrodynamics. Electromagnetic field strength tensor, Maxwell equations. Gauge transformations and gauge invariance. Electrostatics, boundary value problems. Multipole expansion. Magnetostatics. Electric charge motion in an external electromagnetic field. Macroscopic electrodynamics. Electromagnetic waves..Dipole, quadruple and magnetodipole radiation. Light scattering, radiation damping. Optics. Electromagnetic field of a relativistic charge. Synchrotron radiation. Vavilov-Cherenkov radiation.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yagmur Torun ~ TR from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 103 (add to cart)

PHYS 507: Introduction to Quantum Computing
An introductory course in quantum physics and quantum computing for non-physics majors suitable for upper division STEM majors and graduate students. Topics to be covered include quantum physics basics, types of physical qubit systems in current use, methods of qubit measurement, fault tolerance in quantum computing, and quantum algorithms including quantum teleportation, quantum cryptography, Deutch-Jozsa, Simon's, Bernstein-Vazirani, Grover, Shor, and quantum Fourier transforms. Course will include hands-on exercises with online quantum computing resources. Previous experience with linear algebra and complex numbers preferred.
Spring 2025: 6 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Carlo Segre ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

PHYS 510: Quantum Theory II
Second quantization. Multiparticle systems. Applications of second quantization. Rotations and angular momentum. Angular momenta algebra. Group theory applications in quantum mechanics. Spin and spinors. Scattering theory. Particle in a magnetic field. Landau levels. Path integral formulation of classical and quantum mechanics. Relativistic quantum mechanics. Klein-Gordon equation. Multiparticle interpretation. Dirac equation. Gamma-matrices and their algebra. Bispinors. Gauge invariance in QM. Spontaneous symmetry breaking.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yurii Shylnov ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 119 (add to cart)

PHYS 540: Computational Accelerator Physics
Single-particle dynamics and numerical integration; transverse and longitudinal motion; phase space distributions and ellipses; transfer map methods; periodic systems; advanced beam optics modules; magnetic fields and FEM; RF cavities; errors and resonances; symplectic integration; other topics (final presentations).
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Pavel Snopok ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 116 (add to cart)

PHYS 553: Quantum Field Theory
Quantum field theory is a language to understand large numbers of degrees of freedom in most areas of physics such as high energy, statistical, and condensed matter physics. Topics covered include: canonical quantization of fields; path integral quantizations of scalar, Dirac, and gauge theories; symmetries and conservation laws; perturbation theory and generating functionals; regularization and renormalization.
Spring 2025: 16 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Zack Sullivan ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 213 (add to cart)

PHYS 572: Introduction to Health Physics
Health Physics profession; Units in radiation protection; Radiation sources; Interaction of ionizing radiation with matter; Detectors for radiation protection; Biological effects of ionizing radiation; Introduction to microdosimetry; Medical health physics; Fuel cycle health physics; Power reactor health physics; University health physics; Accelerator health physics; Environmental health physics; Radiation accidents.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ William Limestall (add to cart)

PHYS 575: Case Studies in Health Physics
This is a non-instructional course designed to promote the understanding of radiation safety through lessons learned from the past incidents. The focus will be on the means for improving the future operations of the facilities/devices. The course is recommended to be among the last courses taken by students who have gained at least one year of academic exposure in health physics and with some level of capability to address the underlying technical aspects. This course should be taken in a student's final semester.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ David Scherer (add to cart)

PHYS 576: Radiation Dosimetry
This course is designed to study the science and technique of determining radiation dose and is fundamental to evaluating radiation hazards and risks to humans. This course covers both external dosimetry for radiation sources that are outside the human body and internal dosimetry for intake of radioactive materials into the human body. Topics will include: dosimetry recommendations of ICRP for occupational exposure; US NRC and DOE requirements for particular work environments; and MIRD methodology for medical use of radionuclides.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ David Scherer (add to cart)

PHYS 577: Operational Health Physics
Covers the basic principles for establishing and maintaining an effective institutional radiation safety program including the following: facility design criteria; organizational management issues; training; internal and external radiation control; radioactive waste disposal; environmental monitoring; radiation safety instrumentation; ALARA program; and emergency response planning. The course will also cover facility licensing/registration with state and federal agencies and legal issues such as institutional and individual liability, fines, violations, and worker rights and responsibilities.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Steven Butala (add to cart)

PHYS 585: Physics Colloquium
Lectures by invited scientists in areas of physics generally not covered in the department. May be taken twice by M. S. students to fulfill course credit requirements.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Bryce Littlejohn ~ R from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

PHYS 591: Research and Thesis M.S.
(Credit: variable)Prerequisite: Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Pavel Snopok (add to cart)

PHYS 594: Research Project
Research project.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Zack Sullivan (add to cart)

PHYS 597: Reading and Special Problems
Independent study to meet the special needs of graduate students in department-approved graduate degree programs. Requires the written consent of the instructor. May be taken more than once. Receives a letter grade. (Credit: variable) Prerequisite: Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 5 sections)

PHYS 600: Continuation of Residence
Continuation of Residence
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Pavel Snopok, Bhoopesh Mishra (add to cart)

PHYS 685: Physics Colloquium
Lectures by invited scientists in areas of physics generally not covered in the department. Must be taken twice by M. S. students and four times by Ph. D. students. May be substituted by PHYS 585 for M. S. students.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Bryce Littlejohn ~ R from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

PHYS 691: Research and Thesis Ph.D.
(Credit: Variable)
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Rakshya Khatiwada (add to cart)

PM 501: Project Management Essentials
The effective development, planning, execution, and communication of special projects are critical to all types of public service organizations and private sector organizations. Service organizations, healthcare providers, nonprofits, government organizations, and private sector organizations constantly pursue new initiatives and projects to address the demands of their constantly changing environments. This course will offer an introduction to basic concepts and methods for directing projects and will provide students with tools that prepare them for success in project management. Examples will be drawn from both the public and private sector. The course will be divided into the following components: •Project Plan Definition (Purpose, Goals, Objectives, Expectations, Roles, and Quality Management, Approach and Ground Rules)•Scope of the Project (Definition, Costs, Benefits, Risks, Products, Deliverables, Milestone, and Impacted Business Areas)•Assumptions (Specific and Measurable)•Constraints (Limitations to the Project, Related Projects, Critical Dependencies)• Quality Management Approach (Activity Reviews/Walkthroughs, Tools and Techniques, Test Approach, Performance/Quality Standards, Quality Management Roles, and Training)• Project Management Approach (Work Breakdown, Basis of Estimates, Project Effort Estimation, Project Standards, Project Roles and Responsibilities, Change and Issues Management Approach, Communication and Control Approach)• Attachments (Any pertinent work, flow charts, and approvals that need to be added to flesh out the project)• Project Budget• Project Impact Report• Approvals (Sign-off sheets)
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Joanne Howard ~ MW from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 485 (add to cart)

PM 502: Project Scope, Quality and Risk Management
This seminar focuses on the identification, elaboration, planning and management of project scope and risk, including selected processes from the Project Integration Management and Project Scope Management Knowledge Areas. The class addresses requirements identification and analysis, scope identification and planning, the scope baseline, scope management and change control, integration of scope, schedule and cost, scope verification and sign-off by the customer. During the course, “best practices” will be introduced, and put into context through various exercises and scenarios and case studies. It also addresses risk management, which is the process of identifying, assessing and controlling financial, legal, strategic and security risks to an organization’s capital and earnings. These threats, or risks, could stem from a wide variety of sources, including financial uncertainty, legal liabilities, strategic management errors, accidents and natural disasters. A consistent, systemic and integrated approach to risk management can help determine how best to identify, manage and mitigate significant risks.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Mangaiah Chowdary Garikapati ~ MW from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 485 (add to cart)

PM 505: Project Finance and Procurement
This course covers all aspects of financing projects and setting up a procurement system. Topics include project finance, project agreements, project finance markets, financial models, supply chain issues and procurement systems. Learn how to manage projects efficiently and effectively.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Frank Biga ~ S from 9 AM to 1 PM in Downtown Campus 485 (add to cart)

PM 507: Project Management Capstone
This course teaches students various leadership concepts such as leadership behaviors and styles, and several critical project leadership skills like communication, negotiation, conflict resolution, decision making, problem solving, coaching and mentoring. The course both the theory and practice of leadership as it applies to project management.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Prasad Kodukula ~ TR from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 411 (add to cart)

PM 508: High Impact Power Skills
Power Skills is a comprehensive graduate-level course designed to refine the essential interpersonal and leadership competencies necessary for today's managers. This dynamic program goes beyond traditional "soft skills," delving into the nuanced "power skills" that differentiate competent managers from exceptional leaders. Throughout the course, students will engage in practical exercises to enhance active listening, ensuring clear and effective communication within diverse teams. Students will be tasked with real-world conflict management scenarios, developing strategies to navigate and resolve workplace disputes diplomatically. A special focus is placed on emotional intelligence (EI) – a skill set that is crucial for understanding and managing both personal and team emotions in a professional setting. Interactive sessions on EI will help students recognize emotional cues and foster a supportive work environment. The curriculum emphasizes adaptability, preparing future leaders to pivot strategies in response to the ever-changing business landscape. Through case studies and collaborative group projects, students will learn the art of negotiation, balancing firm objectives with the art of compromise. Teamwork is a pillar of the course, encouraging collaborative problem-solving and collective goal achievement. By incorporating PMI's Talent Triangle®, the program also integrates technical project management, strategic business management, and leadership into the learning outcomes. Upon completion, students will emerge as well-rounded professionals, ready to leverage power skills for career advancement and organizational success in the dynamic workforce of the future.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Helen Ezenwa ~ TR from 1 PM to 3:30 PM in Downtown Campus 470 (add to cart)

PS 214: State and Local Government
Investigates the relationships among federal, state/provincial, metropolitan/regional, and local units of government, examining theories of federalism, constitutional foundations, judicial interpretations, administrative actions, and current trends and debates. The United States and other federal systems serve as case countries. The course also explores how federalism is being shaped by such factors as globalization, environmental challenges, tribal sovereignty, and terrorism.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Daniel Bliss ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Siegel Hall 203 (add to cart)

PS 230: International Relations
Introduces students to the major theories and concepts needed to understand compelling issues confronting the international system. Students will examine how thinking and practice have evolved on such fundamental matters as war, peace, and national security; weapons proliferation; human rights; political economy; international aid and sustainable development; regional integration; and the roles and functions of international and non-governmental organizations.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Aleksandar Jankovski ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Stuart Building 204 (add to cart)

PS 313: Comparative Public Policy
Considers why policies on issues like social welfare, health care, education, immigration, and others differ from country to country, looking for answers in such factors as political culture, level of economic development and equality, institutional frameworks and actors, social organization, or some mix of those explanations.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Aleksandar Jankovski ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Siegel Hall 203 (add to cart)

PS 329: Environmental Politics and Policy
Students look at the complexities of making and implementing environmental policy at the local, national, regional, and/or global levels. Emphasis will be placed the ways that conflict and cooperation among multiple economic, social, and political interests contribute to the successes and failures of environmental policy. Topics for in depth study may include global warming, air and water pollution, depletion of natural resources, biodiversity conservation, environmental communication, and the roles played by international organizations, local and national governments, businesses, and non-governmental organizations.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jonathan Rosenberg ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Stuart Building 239 (add to cart)

PS 338: Energy Policy
This course traces our dependence on fossil fuels and government-based attempts to promote energy conservation and develop alternate energy sources. Assessed are the economic and political effects of the supply and demand for energy; the implications of different energy production and consumption methods; and efforts to minimize the environmental consequences through increased energy efficiency and/or regulation. The course explores such problems as fossil fuel dependence, greenhouse gas emissions reductions, nuclear waste, rapid industrialization, and national and international attempts to provide economic, political, and technological solutions.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Matthew Shapiro ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Siegel Hall 203 (add to cart)

PS 360: Global Political Economy
Examines the economic, socio-political, and cultural aspects of globalization within the context of both contemporary discussions about the phenomenon and wider debates in the field of political economy. The course also covers aspects of international development, both economic and political.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jonathan Rosenberg ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Siegel Hall 204 (add to cart)

PS 372: Government and Politics in Africa
Surveys contemporary African politics in its historical, economic, and cultural context. Both individual country cases and regional issues are examined, and approaches to comparative political analysis are used to understand the causes and consequences of observed patterns of political similarities and differences.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Patrick Ireland ~ TR from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Siegel Hall 202 (add to cart)

PSYC 103: Ethical and Professional Issues in Recovery Support
This course provides an overview of historical, philosophical, ethical, and legal issues in recovery support, with a focus on application of ethical decision-making. Students will learn professional roles, functions, and responsibilities as well as multicultural competence.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Christina Ancira, Karyn Stovall ~ R from 6 PM to 7:35 PM in TBA (add to cart)

PSYC 105: Special Topics and Populations in Recovery Support
This course explores special topics relevant to those working in mental health and substance use disorder, including knowledge and skills in facilitating peer groups, understand unique needs of special populations (veterans, returning citizens, older adults, families, children, teenagers, and emerging adults), and special topics including spirituality, sexuality, and telehealth.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicolette Rivera, Karyn Stovall ~ T from 6 PM to 7:35 PM in TBA (add to cart)

PSYC 204: Research Methods in Behavioral Science
Introduction to experimental, survey, and field study methodology, including: ethics; research design; collection, preparation, analysis of data; and writing research reports.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture/Lab (Class) ~ Robert Keating ~ MW from 10 AM to 11:15 AM in Alumni Memorial Hall 222 ~ W from 8:35 AM to 9:25 AM in Alumni Memorial Hall 218 (add to cart)

PSYC 221: Introduction to Psychological Science
Psychologists use the scientific method to understand the behavior and mental processes of individuals. Their investigations into understanding the behavior of individuals span multiple areas including perception, learning, cognition, language, development, motivation, personality, psychological disorders, social, health, and industrial/organization. In addition to the variety of fields, psychology examines behavior at multiple levels such as biological, behavioral, and cultural. This course will: 1) introduce the field of psychological science; 2) explore the research methods psychologists use to answer questions; 3) use research and theory to introduce psychological processes in multiple fields; and 4) to apply psychological theories to mass media.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicole Legate ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in TBA (add to cart)

PSYC 250: Introduction to Leadership: Concepts and Practices
A survey of historical and contemporary theories, concepts and complexities associated with leadership. Emphasis will be placed on application of theories to practical experiences of leadership.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jack Kwatinetz ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 119 (add to cart)

PSYC 301: Industrial Psychology
Survey of practical applications of psychology to problems of business and industry: work attitudes and behavior; employee selection; morale; safety; turnover; absenteeism; and training.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicole Blacksmith ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Perlstein Hall 108 (add to cart)

PSYC 303: Introduction to Psychopathology
Overview of various cognitive, emotional, and behavioral disorders, focusing on diagnostic criteria, causal factors, and treatment, and emphasizing scientific, research-oriented perspectives.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ashley Petersen ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Robert A. Pritzker Science Ctr 111 (add to cart)

PSYC 310: Social Psychology
Description and analysis of behavior and experience as determined by social conditions. Includes social issues, human relations, prejudice, and leadership.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Arlen Moller ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 225 (add to cart)

PSYC 320: Applied Correlation and Regression
This course will provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to apply correlation and regression analysis to the study of human behavior. Emphasis will be placed on practical issues associated with these statistical techniques and significant attention will be paid to running analyses and reporting results.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Robert Keating ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 121 (add to cart)

PSYC 330: Health Psychology
Health psychology applies psychological principles to health promotion and the prevention and treatment of illness. The goal of this course is to provide a thorough understanding of the key concepts and theories important to health psychologists and the skills to think analytically and critically about health issues. The course will cover a broad range of topics including stress, coping, and behaviors that promote health and prevent illness. The course will also cover specific health problems such as HIV/AIDS, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, eating disorders, and substance abuse and critically examine the underlying biological, psychological, and social factors influencing the onset, course, and outcomes of these diseases.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicole Legate ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in TBA (add to cart)

PSYC 352: Personality Theory
This course will provide an overview of prominent approaches to personality psychology.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Francis Lane ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Hermann Hall MEZZANINE (add to cart)

PSYC 363: Introduction to Sports Psychology
In this course, students will explore the major psychological theories related to sport and exercise behavior. The course is designed to introduce students to the field of sport and exercise psychology through a combination of classroom discussion and exercise application. This course will provide students with a broad overview of major topics including: the history of sports and exercise psychology; foundations of personality, self-concept, self-esteem, motivation, and other psychological characteristics related to participation and performance in sports; coaching and leadership in sports; gender and cultural issues; team dynamics; performance enhancement strategies; and sports as recreation.
Spring 2025: 17 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Kelly Kazukauskas (add to cart)

PSYC 436: Adult Development
Explores processes and changes in cognitive, social, physical and emotional functioning across adult life. Requires 9 hours of psychology.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Virakti Shah ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Tech Park - Central Building 225 (add to cart)

PSYC 485: Senior Capstone Project I
The Psychology Capstone Project is an independent study that consists of a formal project and may include a research component, a literature review component as well as a data analysis component or may include an internship or fellowship experience as discussed by you and your project advisor. The project should incorporate and expand upon the depth of knowledge gained from previous years of study and include predetermined deliverables which may include a final thesis or poster. The project should focus on an area of psychology that is of interest to you as a means to expand your knowledge on the subject and to solidify your future goals.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Robert Keating (add to cart)

PSYC 486: Senior Capstone Project II
Continuation of the Psychology Capstone Project. This is an independent study that consists of a formal project and may include a research component, a literature review component as well as a data analysis component or may include an internship or fellowship experience as discussed by you and your project advisor. The project should incorporate and expand upon the depth of knowledge gained from previous years of study and include predetermined deliverables which may include a final thesis or poster. The project should focus on an area of psychology that is of interest to you as a means to expand your knowledge on the subject and to solidify your future goals.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Robert Keating (add to cart)

PSYC 497: Special Problems
Independent study involving compilation and analysis of data bearing on a significant problem. **Instructor permission required.** One credit is earned for approximately 3 hours per week of effort.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Robert Keating (add to cart)

PSYC 502: Social Bases of Behavior
Critical overview of theory and research in social cognition, interpersonal relations, group dynamics and organizational psychology. Implications of principles for issues and problems in real-world social systems are developed.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Arlen Moller ~ M from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 225 (add to cart)

PSYC 505: History and Systems of Psychology
Critical and conceptual evaluation of influential philosophical and psychological theories of human behavior: From the Greek bronze age to the modern era.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Alissa Haedt Matt ~ M from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 239 (add to cart)

PSYC 508: Ethics and Professional Issues I
This is an introductory course designed around ethical issues confronting clinical psychologists. It is offered to incoming first year clinical students to allow them to think about ethical issues in treatment, assessment, and professional behavior. Using the APA ethics code as a guide, students present and respond to ethical dilemmas that they may face as they embark upon their career as clinical psychologists. Other professional issues are also discussed including the transition to graduate school, course selection decisions, and any other general graduate school questions that may arise.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ashley Petersen ~ M from 10 AM to 11:40 AM in Tech Park - Central Building 237 (add to cart)

PSYC 509: Ethics and Professional Issues II
This is a continuation of PSYC 508 but offered to second semester, third year students. It is designed to prepare students for the later parts of the graduate student experience. Topics include dissertation research, the internship experience, early job and career decisions, supervision, and consultation. Barriers to successful completion of the program are discussed and problem solved. Ethical issues such as those confronting new Ph.D.'s are also introduced.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Alissa Haedt Matt ~ M from 1:50 PM to 2:40 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 239 (add to cart)

PSYC 512: Clinical Assessment II
Seminar and supervised training in personality assessment of adults and children. Research, psychometric characteristics, conceptual foundations, clinical applicability, administration, scoring and interpretation of major assessment instruments, and writing reports.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ashley Petersen ~ W from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 237 (add to cart)

PSYC 526: Psychopathology
Critical examination of clinical and experimental research in psychopathology and diagnostic classification systems.
Spring 2025: 12 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Francis Lane ~ W from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Stuart Building 225 (add to cart)

PSYC 529: Personnel Selection and Evaluation
Principles and techniques of employee selection and placement. Analysis of test data which will maximize the effectiveness of such techniques.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Scott Morris ~ R from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 225 (add to cart)

PSYC 531: Organizational Attitudes and Behavioral Seminar
The course is an in-depth study of factors that affect Organizational behavior and attitude (motivational theories). The various key attitudes and behaviors that organizations are defined and research relating to them is discussed (e.g. job satisfaction, organizational commitment, job involvement, turnover, absenteeism, and organizational citizenship). We also identify the stresses on today's employees' life and discuss some ways to manage them (e.g. job stress, work-family conflict, minority and immigrant worker.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Roya Ayman ~ W from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in TBA (add to cart)

PSYC 533: Clinical Practicum
Clinical assessment, therapy and/or consultation in a community-based mental health setting or medical facility for an average of 15 to 20 hours per week, per semester. Students obtain supervised experience in the provision of psychological services and related professional activities. Must be in an approved clinical placement site.
Spring 2025: 22 seats avail. | Practicum (Independent Study/Research) ~ Ashley Petersen (add to cart)

PSYC 546: Graduate Statistics II
Statistical procedures used in the prediction and explanation of psychological data, including multiple regression. Emphasis on computer applications.
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Robert Keating ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 225 (add to cart)

PSYC 549: Practicum in Rehabilitation and Mental Health Counseling
Seminar and supervised experience in rehabilitation and mental health counseling with an emphasis on development of individual counseling skills. Students work in a field-based rehabilitation and mental health counseling capacity carrying a small client caseload while participating in weekly individual and group supervision. Includes topics related to counseling processes, procedures, and theories; ethics; and crisis prevention, assessment, and intervention.
Spring 2025: 13 seats avail. | Practicum (Class) ~ Kelly Kazukauskas ~ T from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in TBA (add to cart)

PSYC 558: Industrial Psychology Internship I
Supervised experience in psychological practices in an industrial setting. (Credit: variable)
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Roya Ayman ~ F from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 225 (add to cart)

PSYC 559: Industrial Psychology Internship II
Supervised experience in psychological practices in an industrial setting. (credit: Variable)
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Roya Ayman ~ F from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 225 (add to cart)

PSYC 561: Applied Counseling Techniques: Group Counseling
Methods and techniques in the group counseling process including group facilitation and leadership. Provides a theoretical and experiential understanding of group purpose, development, dynamics, theories, methods, skills, and other group approaches in a multicultural society with an emphasis on working with persons with disabilities within a family/systems framework.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Kelly Kazukauskas ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 119 (add to cart)

PSYC 563: Human Growth and Career Development
Presentation and discussion of human growth and career development theories across life span with special emphasis on persons with disabilities. Includes the nature and needs of persons at all developmental levels and in multicultural contexts with specific focus on biological bases of behavior, learning and personality development, transitioning, career decision making, and the family/system inﬂuences on vocational choice.
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicole Ditchman ~ W from 10 AM to 12:40 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 225 (add to cart)

PSYC 564: Rehabilitation and Mental Health Counseling Research Seminar
The primary objective of this course is to help students become familiar with rehabilitation and mental health counseling research, acquire the basic knowledge and skills for designing and conducting applied research, and develop a preliminary research proposal for their research project. A secondary purpose is to teach students to critically evaluate rehabilitation and mental health counseling research in order to inform evidence-based practice. Includes an overview of various research designs, data analysis techniques, and the use of SPSS for statistical analysis as well as principles and models of program evaluation and the use of findings to effect program modifications.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Patrick Corrigan (add to cart)

PSYC 575: Adult Career Development and Vocational Behavior
Presentation and discussion of impact of disabilities on adult career development. Vocational development theories, occupational information and analysis, career counseling and research methodology.Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 9 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Nicole Ditchman ~ M from 3:15 PM to 5:55 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 239 (add to cart)

PSYC 576: Research in Rehabilitation and Mental Health Counseling
This course teaches students to develop a preliminary research proposal for a research project based in areas of rehabilitation and mental health counseling. This course also prepares students for designing research investigations, collecting data sets, utilizing data analytic techniques, and interpreting empirical research.
Spring 2025: 22 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Jonathan Larson (add to cart)

PSYC 578: Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling Internship
Supervised experience in clinical rehabilitation counseling, which is intended to reflect the comprehensive work experience of a professional counselor working with persons with disability and/or chronic illness. Students are provided the opportunity to become familiar with a variety of professional activities and resources in addition to direct service (e.g., record keeping, assessment instruments, supervision, information and referral, in-service, and staff meetings, vocational counseling and evaluation, etc.).
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Kelly Kazukauskas ~ T from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 225 (add to cart)

PSYC 579: Clinical Mental Health Counseling Internship
Supervised experience in clinical mental health counseling, which is intended to reflect the comprehensive work experience of a professional mental health counselor. Students are provided the opportunity to become familiar with a variety of professional activities and resources in addition to direct service (e.g., record keeping, assessment instruments, supervision, information and referral, in-service, and staff meetings).
Spring 2025: 7 seats avail. | Internship (Independent Study/Research) ~ Kelly Kazukauskas ~ T from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Tech Park - Central Building 237 (add to cart)

PSYC 583: Rehabilitation Engineering Technology I: Survey of Interdisciplinary Application of RET
An overview of Assistive Technology (AT) used by people with disabilities. Includes contact with local AT sites, consumers and practicing professionals. Reviews specific AT applications for communication, mobility and control; national and local AT resources; and economics of AT development, marketing and service delivery. Design, engineering, and architectural issues relevant to people with disabilities are introduced.Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Eun-Jeong Lee ~ M from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 036 (add to cart)

PSYC 588: Graduate Psychology Seminar
Reports and discussion of current problems and issues in psychology.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Christine Overfors ~ M from 5 PM to 7:40 PM in Stuart Building 238 (add to cart)

PSYC 589: Rehabilitation Internship III
Supervised experience in rehabilitation counseling. (Credit: Variable)
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Kelly Kazukauskas (add to cart)

PSYC 590: Psychiatric Rehabilitation
Class covers a wide range of topics including a review of the disease and disability models of mental illness, skills training components in treatment, incentive strategies for participants, transfer of learned skills to other situations, and cognitive rehabilitation strategies.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Lindsay Sheehan ~ W from 1:50 PM to 4:30 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 032 (add to cart)

PSYC 591: Research and Thesis M.S.
Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Nicole Legate (add to cart)

PSYC 594: Special Projects
Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Steff Du Bois (add to cart)

PSYC 595: Graduate Research Project
Independent research for PhD students who are required to complete a thesis equivalent project. Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Scott Morris (add to cart)

PSYC 597: Special Problems
Instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Arryn Guy (add to cart)

PSYC 599: Clinical Internship
Ph.D. Comprehensive Exam Participation in full-time internship accredited by the American Psychological Association, or, in exceptional cases, approved by the clinical Psychology program. Approval of dissertation proposal and instructor permission required.
Spring 2025: 25 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Alissa Haedt Matt (add to cart)

PSYC 600: Continuation of Residency
Continuation of residency.
Spring 2025: 15 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Nicole Legate (add to cart)

PSYC 691: Research and Thesis Ph.D.
Research and thesis for Ph. D. students.
Spring 2025: 10 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ Arlen Moller (add to cart)

SAM 504: Industrial Ecology and the Circular Economy
This course introduces students to the emerging field of Industrial Ecology, and examines how this systems-based approach can be used to move society toward a more sustainable future. Industrial Ecology is an interdisciplinary field involving technology (science and engineering), public policy, business administration and increasingly the social sciences. The course introduces concepts and tools such as Material and Energy Flow Analysis, Life Cycle Assessment, Design for Sustainability, Extended Producer Responsibility and Industrial Symbiosis.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ricardo Magallon ~ T from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 490 (add to cart)

SAM 512: Environmental Risk Assessment
The SAM 512 course will offer discussion of the basic concepts of Environmental Risk Analysis, Control of Environmental, Work Place Hazards; Industrial Hygiene; and Ecological Risk Analysis. Also discussed are recognition and evaluation of chemical, physical and biological hazards; the human environment; control hierarchies, strategies and technologies; personal protection; criteria and standards; and associated Management and Ethical issues.
Spring 2025: 4 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Tannis Williamson ~ W from 6 PM to 8:30 PM in Downtown Campus 470 (add to cart)

SCI 511: Project Management
Successful project management links the basic metrics of schedule adherence, budget adherence, and project quality. But, it also includes the 'people components' of customer satisfaction and effective management of people whether it is leading a project team or successfully building relationships with co-workers. Through course lectures, assigned readings, and case studies, the basic components of leading, defining, planning, organizing, controlling, and closing a project will be discussed. Such topics include project definition, team building, budgeting, scheduling, risk management and control, evaluation, and project closeout.
Spring 2025: 8 seats avail. | Lecture (Internet) ~ Joanne Howard (add to cart)

SCI 522: Public Engagement for Scientists
This course presents strategies for scientists to use when engaging a variety of audiences with scientific information. Students will learn to communicate their knowledge through correspondence, formal reports, and presentations. Students will practice document preparation using report appropriate formatting, style, and graphics. Written assignments, discussion questions, and communication exercises will provide students with a better understanding of the relationship between scientists and their audiences whether in the workplace, laboratory, etc.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ James Maciukenas (add to cart)

SOC 200: Introduction to Sociology
Introduces students to the structure and operation of society. The course analyzes individual behavior and emphasizes social problems.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Willa Sachs ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Siegel Hall 203 (add to cart)

SOC 303: Science in Society
Examines the role of the institution of science, scientific knowledge, and scientists in society. The course focuses on areas where science significantly influences and is influenced by political, economic, and cultural institutions and contexts.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Joseph Renow ~ TR from 6:25 PM to 7:40 PM in Siegel Hall 202 (add to cart)

SOC 305: Social Communication
Studies the variety of subtle ways, verbal and nonverbal, in which humans communicate in personal, professional, and public life, and how to identify and solve problems and misunderstandings that typically arise. Topics include the social nature of humans, interpersonal communication, interaction within and between groups, teamwork, leadership, and intercultural communication.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ullica Segerstrale ~ W from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 117 (add to cart)

SOC 311: Social Use of Space
Gives students basic insights into people's experience of space and the effect of spatial arrangements on people's behavior. The course explores the differences in conceptions between planners and users and the need to take the user into account in spatial design.
Spring 2025: 11 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Ullica Segerstrale ~ T from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 117 (add to cart)

SOC 348: Deviant Behavior and Conformity
Analyzes the definition, development, and control of deviant behavior in relation to social processes. Societal reaction to and the amount, distribution, and behavioral systems of various forms of deviance (drug addiction, suicide, crime, alcoholism, illegitimacy, etc.) are examined.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Saran Ghatak ~ MW from 11:25 AM to 12:40 PM in Siegel Hall 202 (add to cart)

SSB 011: Undergraduate Part-Time Internship

Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Natalie Champagne (add to cart)

SSB 012: Undergraduate Full-Time Internship
N/A
Spring 2025: 999 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Natalie Champagne (add to cart)

SSB 013: Graduate Part-Time Internship

Spring 2025: 989 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Natalie Champagne (add to cart)

SSB 014: Graduate Full-Time Internship
N/A
Spring 2025: 990 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Natalie Champagne (add to cart)

SSB 510: Advancing Career and Education: Foundational Career Competency Development
The two-semester Advancing Career and Education (ACE) Program is a graduation requirement that complements the graduate business student's academic experience and prepares the student for professional internship placement and the post-graduation job market. Aligned with the Stuart Educational and Professional Development Competency Model, the first semester course (SSB 510) explores topics such as cultural competence, communication skills, ethics, and leadership and teamwork. This course develops students' workplace readiness in the areas of resume development, relationships and communication, workplace etiquette, presentation skills, and time management. During the second semester, students are provided the option of completing the self-selected Career Competency Experience (SSB 511) or applying to the Industry Solutions Experience (SSB 512).
Spring 2025: 3 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Tiffany White ~ M from 10 AM to 11:50 AM in Downtown Campus 490 (add to cart)

SSB 511: Advancing Career and Education: Career Competency Experience
The two-semester Advancing Career and Education (ACE) Program is a
graduation requirement that complements the graduate business student's
academic experience and prepares the student for professional internship
placement and the post-graduation job market. Aligned with the Stuart
Educational and Professional Development Competency Model, the second
semester course (SSB 511) focuses on internship search and interviewing
skills including demonstrating business competencies, LinkedIn strategies
and tools, networking and informational interviewing, and understanding
employer expectations. To satisfy the experiential component of the ACE
Program, students in SSB 511 must select and develop specific competencies
from a list of career-relevant skill areas. Students will then participate
in a self-selected experiences and write a reflection paper for each
experience in which they discuss its relevance to their career objectives
and the competencies they selected.
Spring 2025: Class (show all 7 sections)

SSB 512: Advancing Career and Education: Applied Industry Experience
The two-semester Advancing Career and Education (ACE) Program is a graduation requirement that complements the graduate business student's academic experience and prepares the student for professional internship placement and the post-graduation job market. Aligned with the Stuart Educational and Professional Development Competency Model, the second semester course (SSB 512) focuses on client relationship management, consulting skill development, research application, and problem-solving in addition to internship search and interviewing skills including demonstrating business competencies, LinkedIn strategies and tools, networking and informational interviewing, and understanding employer expectations. To satisfy the experiential component of the ACE Program, students in SSB 512 participate in a team-based workplace experience hosted by a partner organization. Students will receive mentorship from a company representative and an opportunity to present a business solution to the organization.
Spring 2025: 1 seats avail. | Seminar (Class) ~ Adetunji Sangoleye ~ M from 10 AM to 11:50 AM in Downtown Campus 470 (add to cart)

SSCI 210: Social and Political Thought
Examines central social and political theories and their ideas concerning the relationship between individual and society, social harmony and conflict, social equality, and the state.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Joseph Renow ~ TR from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Siegel Hall 202 (add to cart)

SSCI 220: Global Chicago
Through readings, lectures, and field trips to local neighborhoods, this course will look at the ways that Chicago has become a global city and what that means for local government, businesses, educators, and the non-profit sector. The course explores how Chicago has become a node in the global economy and a gateway to immigrants from all over the world.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Joseph Renow ~ TR from 5 PM to 6:15 PM in Siegel Hall 202 (add to cart)

SSCI 321: Social Inequality
Evaluates the patterns and dimensions of social, economic, and political inequality in American society and how these compare with other societies, who gets ahead and why, the consequences of social stratification, and the outlooks for the future of inequality in developed countries like the United States.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Christopher Deis ~ R from 6:25 PM to 9:05 PM in John T. Rettaliata Engg Center 104 (add to cart)

SSCI 354: Urban Policy
Explores major dilemmas facing cities today including changing economic and tax bases, fiscal stresses, immigration, marginalized populations, new forms of consumption, and adaptation to structural change. Responses of politicians to pressures to develop new policies and leverage the productive capacity of the city and the impact of citizen preferences are analyzed.
Spring 2025: 2 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Daniel Bliss ~ MW from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Siegel Hall 202 (add to cart)

SSCI 376: Global Migration
This course will examine the history of migration and present-day situations in Europe, the Americas, the Asia-Pacific region, Africa, and the Middle East including the policies that let some people in but keep others out. Significant attention will also be paid to the process by which foreign "outsiders" become integrated (or not) in their new home. Course draws on research from political scientists, sociologists, demographers, economists, and anthropologists.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Patrick Ireland ~ TR from 8:35 AM to 9:50 AM in Siegel Hall 203 (add to cart)

SSCI 385: Special Topics
Investigates an interdisciplinary topic of current interest in the social sciences. Course may be taken multiple times provided the topic is different each time.
Spring 2025: 0 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Saran Ghatak ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Siegel Hall 204 (add to cart)

SSCI 486: Program Evaluation
The purpose of this course is to provide students with an introduction to applied research methodologies which are commonly used by public and non-profit managers to assess the effectiveness of service delivery. We will explore the theoretical underpinnings and practical application of the range activities involved in planning, implementing, and evaluating programs.
Spring 2025: 23 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Matthew Shapiro ~ MW from 3:15 PM to 4:30 PM in Siegel Hall 203 (add to cart)

SSCI 493: Public Service Internship
This course is designed to give students in a Social Science major the opportunity to combine classroom theory with practical application through job-related experiences. Students will complete a 120-hour internship with an approved industry, government, or non-profit organization with a work focus which relates to their academic training and career objectives. Instructor permission is required.
Spring 2025: 5 seats avail. | Internship (Class) ~ Saran Ghatak (add to cart)

STAT 514: Applied Computational Statistics for Analytics
Generating actionable insights from data relies heavily on proper usage of analytics. The foundation of this process consists of two key ingredients: fundamental statistical concepts and corresponding computational tools. This course covers the topics from statistics and programming necessary to understand how such concepts come about, why the algorithms work the way they do, and how to use these in practice. The emphasis is on implementing the foundational procedures in industry-standard programming languages.
Spring 2025: 30 seats avail. | Lecture (Class) ~ Yuhan Ding ~ MW from 1:50 PM to 3:05 PM in Wishnick Hall 115 (add to cart)

STDA 301: Study Abroad
Study Abroad
Spring 2025: 14 seats avail. | Seminar (Internet) ~ Faculty TBA (add to cart)

UCS 301: Continuation of Undergraduate Studies, Administrative
This course is open by permit only to undergraduate students who have non-course requirements to fulfill in the semester of graduation, or for Study Abroad and Exchange students whose term at the home institution extends into the next semester at the Illinois Institute of Technology. Permits are entered by Academic Affairs.
Spring 2025: 92 seats avail. | Independent Study/Research (Class) ~ (add to cart)

